NOTES ON THE PSALMS John BROWN of Haddington

 I CORINTHIANS XIV.XV I will sing with the spirit, and I
will sing with the understanding also.

Preface
         No part of Christian worship is more plainly
warranted by the Oracles of God, than the ordinance of the
singing of psalms. The ancient Hebrews practised it at the Red
sea, before their system of ceremonial worship was prescribed
them by God, Ex. 15. It was preferred to the most pompous
sacrifices, even while the ceremonial observances remained in
their vigour, Ps. 69:30-31. The divine obligation to it,
remained in full force, when the ceremonial law, with all its
rites, was abolished, Ps. 47:1, 5-7; 67:4 and 100:1, 4; Eph.
5:19 with 2:14-15; Col. 3:16, with 2:16-17; James 5:13. We
have it enforced with the most engaging example of the angels
who kept their first estate, Job 38:6-7; Luke 2:13-14; Rev.
5:11-12. Of apostles and saints, Acts 16:25, 1 Cor. 14:15; Ex.
15; Judges 5; Luke 1; 1 Sam. 2; Isa. 35:10; Jer. 31:12; Rev.
4:8-9; 5:9-10; 7:10, 12; 14:3; 15:3 and 19:1-7. Nay, of our
Redeemer himself, Matt. 26:30. This exercise, performed in a
manner suited to the dignity of the glorified state, will be the
everlasting employ of established angels and ransomed men,
Isa. 26:19; 51:11; Rev. 5:9-13.
         Nor is this exercise of inconsiderable usefulness. The
whole glories of Jehovah, as made known to creatures, and all
the wonders of his creating power, his redeeming love, and
providential care, belong to its extensive theme. It is therefore
an excellent means of conveying holy instruction, Col. 3:16; of
inspiring heavenly affections, Ps. 57:7-8; of recreating holy
souls, James 5:13; and, in fine, of bearing up and comforting
amidst grief and trouble, Acts 16:25; Ps. 119:54. And hence it
is seasonable, not only in this valley of tears, but even in the
most distressful condition, Ps. 101:1; Hab. 3:17-18.
         It is a duty which ought to be practised by every
person in secret by himself, James 5:13; Ps. 119:62, 164. By
every Christian family and society, Ps. 118:15; Acts 16:25.
And in every public worshipping assembly and congregation,
Isa. 35:1-2, 6, 10; 53:7-9 and 54:1; Eph. 5:19; Col. 3:16 Matt.
26:30; 1 Cor. 14:26; Rev. 5:9-10; 14:3 and 15:3.
         This duty being of so much importance, we ought to
perform it under the special influence of the Holy Ghost, 1
Cor. 14:15; John 4:24. With understanding of the
warrantableness, matter, manner, and end of our praise, Ps.
47:6-7; 1 Cor. 14:15. With a holy ardour of affection and
vigour of mind, Ps. 57:10, and 103:1-2. With grace in our
heart, making melody therein to the Lord, Eph. 5:19; Col.
3:16. In the name of Christ, as Mediator between God and us,
Col. 3:16-17; 1 Pet. 2:5; and with an earnest aim to glorify
God, Col. 3:16; 1 Pet. 4:11; 1 Cor. 10:31. The matter ought to
be prudently suited to our occasions and conditions, Ps. 112:5;
Eph. 5:15. Nor ought the melody, or, in social worship, the
harmony of voices to be overlooked, Ps. 101.
          No doubt, one may compose spiritual hymns for his
own and others' religious recreation; but to admit forms of
human composure into the stated and public worship of God,
appears to me very improper. (1.) It is extremely dangerous.
Heresies and errors by this means may be, and often have
been, insensibly introduced into churches, congregations, or
families. (2.) There is no need of it. The Holy Ghost hath, in
the Psalms of David, and other scriptural songs, furnished us
with a rich collection of Gospel doctrines and precious
promises; an extensive fund of solid experiences; an
exhaustless mine of Gospel grace and truth; an endless variety
to suit every state or condition, in which either our own soul,
or the church of Christ, can be upon earth. These were all
framed by Him who searcheth the hearts, and knows the deep
things of God; and hence must be better adapted to the case of
souls or societies, than any private composition whatever. (3.)
Though the Holy Ghost never saw meet to leave us a liturgy of
prayers; yet, from the poetical composition thereof, it is plain
he intended these psalms and songs for a standing form of
praise in the church. It is certain, they were used in this
manner under the Old Testament. The Holy Ghost hath, under
the New, plainly directed us to the use thereof, Col. 3:16; Eph.
5:19. The psalms, hymns, and spiritual songs, there
recommended, are plainly the same with the mismorim,
tehillim, and shirim, mentioned in the Hebrew titles of David's
Psalms 3, 4, 5, etc.; 145, 120, 134.
          It hath been pretended, that the language and manner
of these Psalms are not suited to the spiritual nature of our
Gospel-worship. That, however, may as well be urged against
the reading of them, as against the singing of them: nay,
against the reading of a great part of the Old Testament in our
Christian worship. It is certain, many passages in the Book of
Psalms, or of other Scripture songs, are expressive of the
exercises of faith, repentance, love, or the like graces, which
still remain of the same form as under the Old Testament. The
predictions are either accomplished, and so may be sung to the
honour of God's mercy and faithfulness; or, if not
accomplished, may be sung in the hopes that God will
accomplish them in his time. The history of what God did for
his Jewish servants and church, may be sung with admiration
of his love, wisdom, power, and grace therein manifested. It is
further to be considered, that much of what related to David,
or the Jewish church, was typical of the character and concerns
of Jesus Christ, and of the Gospel church; and so ought to be
sung with a special application thereto.
          As for those Psalms which contain denunciations of
divine vengeance upon the enemies of God and his church, we
are to consider, that these expressions were dictated by the
infallible Spirit of God; that the objects of them were forseen
to be irreconcilable enemies of Christ and his church; that
those who sing them, only applaud the equity of the doom
which God hath justly pronounced upon such offenders; and
that they are to be sung with a full persuasion of the event, as a
certain, awful, and just display of the glory and tremendous
justice of Jehovah. Though we ought, therefore, never to apply
them to particular parties or persons who have injured us, yet
to decline using them, out of a pretence of charity, is to
suppose ourselves wiser than Him, whose understanding is
infinite; and more merciful than the Father of mercies, who is
full of compassion, and delighteth in mercy. Moreover, as
these external enemies, devoted to destruction, were in some
sense emblematic of our spiritual enemies, within or without
us, the passages may be sung with applications to ourselves, as
directed against these principalities and powers, and spiritual
wickednesses in high places, with whom we have to wrestle,
while on earth, Eph. 6:10-19; 1 Pet. 5:8-9; Rom. 8:13; Gal.
5:17-24.
         The Book of Psalms is one of the most extensive and
useful in the holy Scripture, as it is every where suited to the
case of the saints. It is, at first, much mixed with complaints
and supplications, and at last issues in pure and lasting praise.
That Heman composed Psalm 88, Ethan, Psalm 89, and
Moses, Psalm 90, is certain. Whether those under the name of
Asaph, were mostly penned by him, or only assigned to be
sung by him as a master of the temple music, as others were to
Jeduthun, or to the sons of Korah, or other chief musicians, we
cannot determine. Some, as Psalms 74, 79, 126 and 137,
appear to have been composed after the begun captivity at
Babylon; but by whom we know not. The rest, including those
two marked with the name of Solomon, might be composed by
David the sweet psalmist of Israel.[1]
         Twenty-five of the Psalms have no title at all; and
whether the titles of the rest are of divine authority, is not
altogether agreed. But when it is considered, that these titles
everywhere appear in the Hebrew originals, and how often
they serve as a key to the psalm, and are sometimes connected
therewith by the accentuating points, there is no real ground to
suspect their authenticity.
         Nor are interpreters agreed with respect to the
signification of some of the Hebrew words standing in these
titles. We think Maschil always signifies, that the psalm is
designed for instruction, as Psalms 32, 42, 43, 45, 52-55, 74,
78, 88, 89. Michtam denotes, the precious or golden nature of
the psalm, as 16, 56-60. At-taschith, that the scope of the
psalm is to deprecate destruction, 57-59. Muthlabben, that the
psalm was composed on the occasion of the death of his son,
or of Goliath, the duellist, Ps. 9. Aijeleth Shahar, that its
subject is Jesus Christ, the hind of the morning, Ps. 22. Jonath-
elem-rechokim, that David is therein represented as a mute
dove among foreigners, Ps. 56. Shoshannim; Shoshannim-
eduth; or Shushan-eduth; may either signify that Christ and his
people, who are lilies, or lilies of the congregation or
testimony, are the subject of it; or that it was sung on an
instrument of six strings, Psalms 45, 60, 69, 80; as Sheminith
denotes an instrument of eight strings, Psalms 6, 12. Mahalath
may either signify the disease; and Mahalath Leanoth the
afflicting disease or it may signify a wind instrument of music,
Psalms 53, 88. Neginath, and Neginoth, denote stringed
instruments of music, Psalms 4, 61, etc. Nehiloth, wind ones,
Ps. 5. Gitteth, a musical instrument or tune, invented at Gath,
Psalms 8, 81, 84. Alamoth, the virginals, or a song to be sung
by the virgins, Ps. 46. Shiggaion, or Shigionoth, may denote
the diversified matter or tune of the psalm, Ps. 7. The 120th,
and fourteen next following, are called songs of degrees;
perhaps because they were sung on different steps of the
temple stairs; or were sung at certain halts made by David and
the Israelites, when they brought up the ark of God from
Kirjath-jearim to Jerusalem; or were sung by the Hebrews at
their different rests, when they came up from the country to
their three solemn feasts; or were partly sung by the Jews at
their different halts, in their return from Babylon.
The Hebrews divided this Book into five, ending with Psalms
41, 72, 89, 106, and 150; the first four of which are concluded
with amen. Interpreters have attempted to arrange or class the
Psalms into a variety of different forms: To me it appears not
improper, to distinguish them into,
I. Instructive, which are either, (1.) Historical, relating to what
God had done for the psalmist or for the Jewish nation, etc.; as
Psalms 18th, 68th, 78th, 104th, 105th, 106th, 114th, 135th,
136th, most of which are also eucharistic: Or, (2.) Doctrinal,
declaring and explaining the principles and duties of religion,
as Psalms 1st, 14th, 15th, 19th, 36th, 37th, 49th, 50th, 53rd,
64th, 76th, 77th, 78th, 81st, 82nd, 90th, 101st, 112th, 119th,
127th, 131st, 133rd, 139th.
II. Prophetic, foretelling events relative to Christ or his church;
as Psalms 2nd, 8th, 16th, 21st, 22nd, 24th, 29th, 40th, 45th,
47th, 48th, 67th, 68th, 69th, 72nd, 87th, 89th, 93rd, 95th, 96th,
97th, 98th, 100th, 110th, 117th, 132nd, 149th; not a few of
which are also eucharistic.
III. Consolatory, in which the psalmist comforts himself and
others in the promises, perfections, or works of God; as
Psalms 4th, 11th, 23rd, 27th, 31st, 37th, 46th, 58th, 73rd, 91st,
121st, 125th, 128th, 129th.
IV. Petitory, in which he bewails his own, or the church's
condition, and supplicates deliverance; as Psalms 3rd, 5th, 6th,
7th, 10th, 12th, 13th, 17th, 20th, 25th, 26th, 27th, 28th, 35th,
38th, 41st, 42nd, 43rd, 44th, 51st, 54th, 55th, 57th, 59th, 60th,
61st, 63rd, 64th, 70th, 71st, 74th, 79th, 80th, 83rd, 85th, 86th,
88th, 102nd, 109th, 120th, 123rd, 130th, 132nd, 137th, 140th,
141st, 142nd, 143rd. Seven of these, in which the psalmist
makes confession of his sin, viz. Psalms 6th, 32nd, 38th, 51st,
102nd, 130th, 143rd, are called penitential.
V. Eucharistic, in which he stirs up himself and others to
praise and thank the Lord for his favours; as Psalms 9th, 18th,
30th, 34th, 60th, 65th 68th, 99th, 103rd 108th, 111th, 113th,
115th 118th, 122nd, 124th, 131st, 134th, 135th, 136th, 138th,
144th 150th.
But, indeed, historical narratives, doctrinal instructions,
prophecies, consolations, supplications, praises and
thanksgivings, are often so pleasantly and profitably connected
in the same psalm, that it is difficult to assign it to one class,
rather than another. And what is historical, as it relates to
David and the Jewish church, is often typical, and so
prophetic, as it relates to Jesus Christ and the Gospel church,
or heavenly state. Many, too, of the supplications respecting
deliverances from, or the destruction of enemies, are to be
considered as real predictions of the events; they being
dictated by the inspiration of Him who can declare the end
from the beginning.
[1]That the Hebrew originals are composed in a metrical form
hath been almost universally agreed: but the laws and
measures of the poetry have not yet been clearly ascertained. It
is not even reasonable to insist, they should correspond with
those of the Greeks or Romans, and other nations of the West,
whose idioms and manner of language are so remarkably
different. It is certain, they as little agree with those of the dull
and insipid rhymes composed by the Jewish Rabbins. Some of
the Psalms, no doubt for the more easy retention thereof in the
memory, are composed of verses or sentences beginning
according to the order of the Hebrew alphabet. In this order
every sentence of the 111th and 112th Psalms begins with a
new letter. Almost every verse of the 25th, 34th, and 145th,
begins in the same order. But in the 119th every eight verses
begin with the same Hebrew letter, in the like alphabetical
order.

Book I

Psalm 1
        Perhaps this psalm was added by Ezra, or
whoever else was the collector of the others into
one book. We have represented to us in it, (1.) The
character of the godly; how holy they are, abstaining
from every temptation to, or appearance of evil; and
with pleasure meditating on, and endeavouring to
fulfil the whole law of God, ver. 1-2; and how
happy, planted in the nearest fellowship with Jesus,
the River of Life, they prosper in their lawful
attempts: They never fall from their grace or
profession; and they shall stand with approbation at
the judgment-seat of God, ver. 3. (2.) The sinfulness
and misery of the wicked: How different from, and
contrary to the godly in their inclinations,
companions, exercises, and ends! How light and
unsubstantial, as chaff, and ready to be hurled by
the storms of infinite wrath, into the depths of hell,
as cast and condemned in the righteous judgment of
God! ver. 4-5. (3.) The great reason of the happiness
of saints, and of the misery of sinners: The Lord
loveth the righteous, and observes and approves of
their inclinations and behaviour; but, as an enemy,
he brings destructive vengeance upon the wicked,
ver. 6.
        While I sing these important lines, let my
soul lift up her eyes to that great pattern of
perfection, Jesus, the man of God's right hand, who
was holy, harmless, undefiled, and separate from
sinners; and who fulfilled all righteousness,
magnified the law, and made it honourable for men
  for me. United to his person, clothed with his
righteousness, and all inflamed and animated with
his redeeming love shed abroad in my heart, let me
examine myself as in his sight; let me walk in him
as my way, and follow him as my pattern and guide:
Let me with solemn awe look to, and prepare for his
last, his eternal judgment!

Psalm 2
        Perhaps this psalm relates partly to David's
instalment on his throne, and the victories over his
enemies which attended it. Compare Psalm 18; 2
Samuel 3, 5, 8, 10, 18, 20. But the whole of it
respects Jesus our Redeemer. Behold, (1.) The
violent and harmonious, but unsuccessful
opposition, which Jews and Gentiles of all ranks
make to the person and redemption work of the
great God my Saviour. Behold what ruin and woe
they draw upon themselves by their attempts! ver.
1-5, 9. (2.) Behold how, notwithstanding all their
raging malice and furious opposition, Jehovah
instals our Redeemer King in his church, and
infallibly fixeth him on his throne; avows him his
only begotten Son, and gives unto him the Gentiles
for his people! ver. 6-8. (3.) Behold Jehovah's
demand of serious consideration and fear of, joy in,
and trust, obedience and love to his exalted Son,
ver. 9-12.
        While I sing, let me remark the horrid nature
of sin; let me with broken heart, bewail my neglect
of, and opposition to Jesus Christ. Let me with
wonder bless his name, that I have not already
perished in mine iniquity. Let me with earnestness
accept that once debased Redeemer, as my Saviour,
my sovereign, my proprietor, my God, my all. Let
me learn to know him, rejoice in him, and with holy
awe, commit my whole salvation, and the salvation
of my country, nay, of all the ends of the earth to
him.

Psalm 3 A Psalm of David, when he fled from Absalom his
son.
        Having beheld the royal dignity of my
Redeemer, let me here behold the joy, the peace, the
safety of the redeemed, amidst their distresses
innumerable. Here David, driven from his holy
capital and high throne, by his rebellious son
Absalom, ( 1.) Complains to his God of the number
and malice of his enemies, ver. 1-2. (2.) He
encourageth himself in his God, as the source and
subject-matter of his safety, joy, and honour, ver. 3.
(3.) He recollects, how, on former occasions, his
troubles had driven him to his prayers; how he had
always found God ready to hear and grant his
requests; how safe and easy he had lived under his
protection; and how effectually he had broken the
power and restrained the malice of his enemies, ver
4-5, 7. ( 4.) Triumphantly trusting in God, as the
salvation and blesser of his people, he silenceth all
his fears, and pours forth his prayers for new
protection and deliverance, ver. 6, 8.
        Think, my soul, of Jesus, who, when bulls of
Bashan compassed him about, trusted in God, that
he would deliver him. In all my distress, let me pour
out my heart before him, believing in him as God,
even my God. Let me always rejoice in the great
God my Saviour. Let me trust in him at all times,
that as he hath delivered, and doth deliver, so he
will deliver me.

Psalm 4 To the chief Musician on Neginoth, A Psalm of
David.
        This psalm was, perhaps, composed on the
same occasion as the former, when David fled from
Absalom his son. Here, (1.) David encouraged by
former experience, casts his burden on the Lord,
and supplicates a merciful deliverance, ver. 1. (2.)
Addressing himself to men, particularly to his
persecutors, he reproves their contempt of God and
religion, their delight in, and practice of vanity,
fraud, and falsehood. He represents the happiness of
the saints in having God their protector, and ready
to hear their requests. He recommends a holy filial
awe of God, and careful abstinence from sin;
together with a devoting of themselves, and their
conduct and substance, to the Lord, ver. 2-5. (3.) To
encourage them to the study of practical religion, he
remarks, what superlative satisfaction and rest
himself had found in familiar fellowship with God,
and in a believing dependence on him, ver. 6-8.
        While I sing, let me have faith in God, as my
own God in Christ. Let me abhor that levity of
mind, that deceitfulness, that earthly mindedness
proper to the ungodly, and every remain thereof. Let
my soul pant for Jehovah, and prefer him to
everything else. Let me, by faith, lay myself down
in his arms, his bosom, as all my salvation and
comfort.

Psalm 5 To the chief Musician, upon Nehiloth, A Psalm of
David.
        Here, (1.) The man according to God's heart,
in the assured faith of God's hearing his prayers, and
hating his sins, fixeth a daily, an early, an earnest, a
steady, a grace-founded correspon dence with God,
in his ordinances of meditation, prayer, praise, etc.,
ver. 1-7. (2.) Behold him humbly requesting God's
special direction in duties which his enemies had
rendered difficult to perform; supplicating and
predicting the ruin of his implacable foes; and, in
the assured faith of obtaining it, imploring comfort
and prosperity to his fellow saints, ver. 8-12.
        While I sing, let my heart and flesh cry out,
and my soul pant and wait for the Lord. In the firm
faith of infinite mercy to forgive all my crimes, and
wash out all my sinful stains, let me blush at, and
detest my own abominations. Let me cultivate the
closest familiarity with the Lord my God. Let my
prayers correspond with his promises, and with the
particular condition of myself or others.

Psalm 6 To the chief Musician on Neginoth upon Sheminith,
A Psalm of David.
        Observe here, (1.) David, a great saint, under
grievous and manifold troubles, sickness of body,
conscience-felt charges of guilt, vexation of mind,
attended with desertion from God, and
contemptuous insults from his enemies, ver. 2, 3, 5,
7, 9. (2.) His supplications, with strong cries and
tears, to God for mitigation of trouble, support
under it, and deliverance from it, ver. 1, 4, 6. (3.)
His triumphant separation of himself from the
wicked, in the full assurance of faith, that God had
heard, and would graciously grant his requests, and
would either convert or destroy his opposers, ver. 8,
10.
        In all my afflictions, let me believe that
Jesus was afflicted for me. Let me call my sin to
remembrance, spread my case before him, fill my
mouth with arguments; implore his abundant, free,
and sovereign mercy, as my sole and all-
comprehensive relief. Nor let me ever expect a
comfortable answer to my prayers, while I cultivate
an intimacy with profane and wicked men.

Psalm 7 Shiggaion of David, which he sang unto the Lord,
concerning the words of Cush the Benjamite.
       Here, accused of traitorous conspiracy
against his sovereign by king Saul, or by Cush one
of his courtiers, David, (1.) Appeals to God,
concerning his innocency of that crime, ver. 3-5.
(2.) He supplicates, that God, as governor of the
world, and King of Israel, would protect him from
danger, plead his cause and give judgment for him,
ver. 1, 2, 6, 9. (3.) In the exercise of faith, he
depends on God, to protect and deliver him, and to
avenge the injuries he had sustained upon his
implacable adversaries, ver. 10, 16. (4.) He resolves
to ascribe the glory of all his deliverances to God
alone, ver. 17.
        While I sing, let me contemplate the spotless
innocency, the finished righteousness of my
Redeemer, together with the injurious usage he
received from his brethren of mankind and the
fearful ruin which hath befallen, or awaits his
incorrigible foes. Let me carefully approve myself
in his sight who searcheth my heart, and trieth my
reins, and who must quickly be my final judge. Let
me implore the just vengeance of heaven, against
my spiritual enemies. And not unto me, but to his
name be the glory and praise of all my protection
and deliverance.

Psalm 8 To the chief Musician upon Gittith, A Psalm of
David.
         This psalm contains a pleasant, but solemn
meditation upon the glory, the greatness, and the
grace of God. Let me here observe, (1.) How
illustrious and widespread are all his glory and
renown, ver. 1, 3, 9. (2.) By how weak and
insignificant instruments, he manifests and spreads
his superlative fame, ver. 2. (3.) Behold his
marvellous condescension and bounty to mankind,
but chiefly to the man Christ, in uniting his human
nature to his divine person, and in giving him all
power in heaven and earth, for the benefit of his
chosen people, ver. 4-8.
        May this Jesus, this name of God in him, be
the enthroned inhabitant, the everlasting wonder,
and the superlative darling of my heart. Let me,
with the babes of Jerusalem, Matt. 21, pour forth
my hosannas to him that cometh in the name of the
Lord to save me hosannas in the highest. Let all the
works of nature lead, and excite me to admire their
Creator's kindness towards men towards sinful and
insignificant me.

Psalm 9 To the chief Musician upon Muth-labben, A Psalm
of David.
         This psalm was, perhaps, composed on the
occasion of his son Absalom's death, 2 Sam. 18; or
on the occasion of the death of Goliath the
champion and duellist of Gath, 1 Sam. 17. We have
in it, (1.) David's hearty thanksgivings to God, for
his pleading of his cause against his and his
country's enemies, and for giving him a complete
victory over them, ver. 1-6, and his excitement of
others to join with him therein, ver. 11-12. (2). His
triumph in God as the righteous judge of the world,
protector of his people, and the destroyer of his
implacable enemies, ver. 7-10, 15-18. (3.) His
requests for further grounds of praising God as his
own deliverer, and the confounder of his enemies,
ver. 13-14, 19-20.
         While I sing these subjects, let me chiefly
consider the blessings of redemption, the victories
of my Redeemer over sin, death, and hell; and
believe that I, through him, shall be more than a
conqueror. Let the ruin of transgressors effectually
admonish me to stand in awe of God, and at the
furthest distance from sin.

Psalm 10
        In this psalm of lamentation and woe, we
have, (1.) David's mournful complaints of God's
withdrawment of his gracious and comfortable
presence, ver. 1. (2.) His mournful and shocking
representation of the wicked men, who persecuted
him, during God's absence: They proudly gloried in
themselves; they counteracted the laws, and
contemned the judgments of God; they contradicted
and defiled their opposers; they were malicious,
treacherous, crafty, hypocritical, and atheistical
persecutors, ver. 2-11. (3.) His earnest supplications
for relief to the people of God, attended with the
firm faith of obtaining it, ver. 12-18.
        While I sing these lines, ponder, O my soul,
what a privilege it is to enjoy familiar fellowship
with God! What abominations lie hid in an evil
heart of unbelief! What a mercy, that the Lord hath
withheld me from that outrage in wickedness, of
which my corrupt nature is capable. Let all my
views of sins and of judgments cause me to flee to
Jesus for relief. If he prepare my heart to pray, he
will surely grant my requests.

Psalm 11 To the chief Musician, A Psalm of David.
        Behold here, (1.) David, tempted by his
timorous friends to escape to some mountain, and
hide himself from the fury of Saul, or of Absalom,
as if that were his only safe course now when his
enemies were exerting themselves to the uttermost,
and all things were in disorder and confusion, ver.
1-3. (2.) David baffling the temptation by a resolute
profession of his trust in God, as the observer of all
men; as the holy and righteous punisher of the
wicked, and friend of the godly, ver. 4-7.
        Let no temptation decoy me from my duty.
Let no danger deter me from it. While Jehovah, my
reconciled God and Father, manageth and judgeth
the world, my safest course is to commit myself to
him in well-doing. Let the just vengeance of God
upon sinners deter my heart from sinning, and his
kindness to his people encourage me to holiness in
all manner of conversation.

Psalm 12 To the chief Musician upon Sheminith, A Psalm of
David.
        In this psalm, which was probably penned
during the reign of Saul, observe, (1.) The times
rendered extremely bad by the almost universal
death of the godly, the general decay of piety and
honesty, the common prevalence of dissimulation
and flattery; by the proud and daring contempt of
God, and oppression of the poor; and by the
protection and encouragement of wickedness, by
those that bare rule in church or state, ver. 1-4, 8.
(2.) Enough in God to balance the evils of the worst
of times. He is ready to help. He will in due time
reckon with the wicked, and restrain their insolence.
He will seasonably and effectually relieve his
oppressed people. His words are pure, firm, and
faithful; and he will always secure a remnant for
himself, ver. 1-5, 6-7.
        In evil times, do thou, my soul, live on thy
God. Walk humbly with thy God. Hope continually
in thy God; and rejoice in his new covenant
promises to men to me.

Psalm 13 To the chief Musician, A Psalm of David.
        Here we have the Psalmist sowing in tears,
but reaping in joy. Observe, (1.) His extreme
distress, occasioned by God's apparent unkindness,
and by inward anguish of soul, and the insolence of
enemies, ver. 1-2. (2.) His fervent supplications that
God would consider his case, strengthen his faith,
direct his goings, and comfort his heart, ver. 3-4.
(3.) Sudden deliverance, flowing from a fixed trust
in God, and inducing to a triumphant joy in him, ver
5-6.
        Think, my soul, how divine withdrawments,
sensibly perceived, sting a renewed heart! How
changeable the saints' spiritual frames are, while
they continue in this world. Weeping endures for a
night, but joy cometh in the morning. And behold,
how quickly the prayers of faith are answered, and
its expectations fulfilled!

Psalm 14 To the chief Musician, A Psalm of David.
        This psalm represents the fearful sinfulness
and misery of mankind, and the marvellous method
of deliverance therefrom. Behold, here, (1.) All
mankind fearfully infected with the God
-dishonouring, the soul-debasing and defiling, the
world -disturbing malady of sinful corruption in
heart and life, ver. 1-3. (2.) Warm expostulations
for the conviction, awakening, and reclaiming of
wicked men, ver. 4-6. (3.) Consolations exhibited to
the righteous, from God's being among them, and
being a refuge to them; and from his sending his
Son to save and redeem them, ver. 5-7.
        While I sing these lines, let me have a deep
sense of my corruptions. Let me be ashamed of
them before God. Let me, with a broken heart and
weeping eye, confess my filthiness and crimes. Let
me groan after and flee to Jesus, the Saviour, the
salvation of God. O wretched man that I am! who
shall deliver me from this abominable life, from this
inward body of death! Thanks to the Redeemer,
who is come to Zion to turn away ungodliness from
Jacob! Let therefore Jacob rejoice and the Gentiles
sing.

Psalm 15 A Psalm of David.
        Here let me, (1.) With wonder, observe the
happy state of present fellowship with God in his
church on earth, and of everlasting fellowship with
him in the temple above; and how fixed the saints
are in this their new-covenant state, ver. 1, 5. (2.)
Let me with self-examination, remark the
discriminating characters of such as are admitted to
that happy state: They are sincere, upright and
honest in all their ways; they are kind to neighbours;
they esteem others in proportion to the appearance
of Christ's image on them; and they prefer a good
conscience to every earthly advantage, ver. 2-5.
        While I sing, let me think of my perfect and
all-sufficient Saviour, who is passed into the
heavens; is entered there for me, as the forerunner.
And, having received him into my heart, as my
sanctifying furniture, let me walk in him as my way,
and follow him as my pattern, denying ungodliness
and worldly lusts, and living soberly, righteously
and godly in this present world. Thus shall the
Father and the Son come unto me on earth, and take
up their abode with me; and so shall I in heaven be
for ever with the Lord.

Psalm 16 Michtam of David.
       This psalm is indeed a michtam, a golden
psalm. Behold the man according to God's heart,
(1.) Committing himself to God as his preserver,
ver. 1. (2.) Avowing his endeared love to the
people, and strict adherence to the worship of God,
ver. 3-4. (3.) With great confidence and joy
claiming God for his satisfying portion, ver. 2, 5-7.
(4.) Comforting himself in, and blessing God for his
present intimacy with him, and granting direction to
him, and for his certain prospect of the eternal
enjoyment of him, ver. 8-11.
But chiefly behold here, Jesus, the man of
God's right hand, surrendering himself up to his
Father's service, in room of, and for the everlasting
advantage of his elect! Behold him, taking out his
new-covenant claim to God, as his God and portion
for ever; and as our God and portion in him! Behold
how, supported of God in his holy manhood, he
suffers unto a tremendous death, and debased
burial; but being raised again, he is crowned with
everlasting glory and honour! Behold how the
agonies of suffering, and the pains of death, are
succeeded with fulness of joy, and rivers of life and
pleasures, at God's right hand for evermore!
Looking to him, let me with patience run the race
that is set before me, living on, and rejoicing in
God, as my all, and in all; and looking for the
blessed hope, and glorious appearing of the great
God my Saviour. Through him, neither sin, nor
devils, nor death, nor hell, shall be able to prevent
my immediate and everlasting enjoyment of
Jehovah, as my infinite portion and exceeding joy.

Psalm 17 A Prayer of David.
        Here in the depths of distress, (1.) David
appeals to God concerning the integrity of his heart,
and the justness of his cause, ver. 1-4. (2) He prays
for establishment in grace within, for tokens of
divine favour from above; and for preservation from
his carnal, malicious and insolent, his restless and
powerful enemies, around, ver. 5-14. (3.) His
triumphs in the assured faith of his everlasting
enjoyment of, and conformity to God, ver. 15.
        Let me also here look after Jesus, in whose
heart was no deceit, and in whose mouth was no
guile: Jesus, who fulfilled all righteousness for me;
and who, notwithstanding all the rage of devils and
men, hath sat down at the right hand of God,
crowned with glory and honour. Let me remember,
that he, as the forerunner is for me entered into
mansions of bliss; and hath left me an example, that
I should follow his steps.

Psalm 18 To the chief Musician, A Psalm of David, the
servant of the Lord, who spake unto the Lord the words of this
song in the day that the Lord delivered him from the hand of
all his enemies, and from the hand of Saul
        In this psalm of thanksgiving for manifold
deliverances, observe, (1.) David's ardent love to
God in Christ, whom he believed to be his own, in
every gracious and saving relation; and whom he
had experienced his merciful, almighty, and
seasonable deliverer, from depths of trouble, ver. 1-
19. (2.) His comfortable reflections, on the integrity
which the Lord had enabled him to maintain, and on
the gracious kindness of God, consequential
thereupon, ver. 20-28. (3.) His thankful ascription
of all the glory of his noted exploits to God, as his
director and strengthener, ver. 29-42. (4.) His
triumphant faith and hope, of further assistance and
favour from God, to himself and to his seed for
evermore, ver. 43-50.
        But let me not forget Jesus, to whom
Jehovah is so closely, so marvellously, so sweetly
related: Jesus, who so ardently loveth his eternal
Father, and for ever returns the grateful
remembrance of his kindness to him, and to his
chosen seed, in delivering him from distress; in
raising him from the dead; in rewarding his
obedience unto death, in giving him glory at his
own right hand, and in rendering all nations his
obedient subjects. Let me sing this new song, in the
full assurance of faith, that God in Christ is my all
and in all; and with a heart ravished with the
consolations of Christ, and in the sweet reviews of
what he hath done, what he doth, and what he will
for ever do, for my soul.

Psalm 19 To the chief Musician, A Psalm of David.
        Now the books of God are opened, not for
my trial and condemnation in the last judgment, but
for my instruction. Let my soul look and read
therein (1.) The book of creation and providence, in
which all the works of God instruct mankind in
general, concerning the eternal wisdom, power and
goodness, of their Maker, ver. 1-6. (2.) The book of
inspiration; the sure, the right, the pure, the true, the
perfect and powerful oracles of which instruct,
convert, comfort, and warm the members of the
church; and in keeping of which there is an
exceeding great and everlasting reward of glory
obtained, ver. 7-11. (3.) What conviction of sin!
what supplication for pardon of it, and preservation
from it! and for the acceptance of our duties through
Jesus' blood, doth or ought to ensue upon a proper
perusal of these volumes of heaven, ver. 12-14.
       While I sing these matters, let me, conscious
of my own ignorance and folly, in all things consult
the mind of God. Let me blush that my experience
of the powerful influences of God's word is so
scanty; and that in me, still dwell such fearful
remains of sinful corruption. Let me cry mightily to
God, for the subduing and destruction thereof.

Psalm 20 To the chief Musician, A Psalm of David.
        Probably this psalm was composed, to be a
prayer for success in some particular expedition of
David's wars. Here, (1.) The people pray for their
king, that God would grant him his requests;
protect, assist, and strengthen him in his work;
accept his oblations, and succeed his projects for the
public welfare, ver. 1-4. (2.) They triumph in God
as their only strength and deliverer, in whom they
shall be more than conquerors, ver. 5-6.
        Let me not forget Jesus, for whom prayer is
made continually; Jesus, who shall daily be praised,
and whom the Father heareth always; accepts his
sacrifice, and crowns him with glory and honour.
And let no creature, but Jehovah as my God in
Christ, be the ground and the object of all my faith
and expectation.

Psalm 21 To the chief Musician, A Psalm of David.
       In this song of thanksgiving, observe, (1.)
All the joys, the honours, and happiness, of king
David, founded in the perfections and gracious
works of God, ver. 1-6. (2.) Full assurance of the
stability of David's throne, and of the discovery and
destruction of his implacable opposers, ver. 7-12.
(3.) Earnest supplications to God, for the
exhilarating displays of his glory and power, ver.
13.
        But chiefly, my soul, behold here, the
everlasting honours, joys, happiness, and blissful
influences of thy Redeemer! Behold how fixed in
his kingdom and dignity, in the infinite, everlasting,
and unchangeable wisdom, power, mercy, equity,
goodness and truth of the Most High! Behold, what
inexpressible vengeance kindles upon and destroys
his Jewish, his Heathen, his Antichristian, and other
incorrigible foes! Rejoice my soul, in this God thy
Saviour. Rejoice at the glory wherewith he is
crowned: at the life granted to, and lodged in him;
and in his being made blessings for evermore to
men; blessings for evermore to me. And let the
ruinous overthrow of his Jewish or other enemies,
make me stand in awe to provoke him, by
presumptuous refusal of him, or rebellion against
him.

Psalm 22 To the chief Musician upon Aijeleth Shahar, A
Psalm of David.
        Here the debasement and exaltation of
David, king of Israel, are merely subservient to, and
figurative of the debasement and exaltation of Jesus
Christ, our blessed Aijeleth Shahar, Hind of the
Morning.
        I. In this deep debasement we find, (1.) Bitter, but
kindly and believing, complaints of God's
withdrawment; attended with earnest attempts of
faith to quiet the complainer's soul under it, drawn
from the consideration of God's holiness and
highness, and his seasonable deliverance of his
people in former times, when they cried to him, ver.
1-5. (2.) Bitter complaints of men's reproaches and
contemptuous derision; attended with self
encouragements, drawn from former experience of
God's early and seasonable care and friendship, ver.
6-10. (3.) Bitter complaints of the number and rage
of enemies, attended with exquisite agonies of body
and mind, and mingled with earnest prayers for
God's speedy supports, assistance, and powerful
deliverance, ver. 11-21.
        While I sing these, let me behold the
vileness, the criminality, the destructive influence of
sin! Let me behold the sovereignty of God, who not
only scourgeth every son whom he receiveth, but
spared not his only begotten Son, but delivered him
up for us all! Behold, how he hates, how he
punisheth our sin! And what manner of love he
bestowed upon us, that we might be called the sons
of God! Behold, how he commendeth his love unto
us, in that, while we were yet sinners, Christ died
for us! And if Jesus, with patience bore such
desertion, reproach, and distress; let me, in the firm
faith that he did all for me, and that God is mine,
and maketh all things work for my good, study an
unhampered resignation to his will.
        II. By the typical exaltation of David, and
the increase, happiness, honour, and duration of his
kingdom, we have prefigured the glorious exaltation
of our Redeemer; importing, that he should have a
church among men; that his Father should be
glorified in them as well as in him; that his true
subjects should abound in prayer, praise, spiritual
comfort, and everlasting life; and that his church
should be enlarged with multitudes of both Jews
and Gentiles, and should, to his honour, and for his
worship and service, continue to all generations,
ver. 22-31.
        While I sing this, let me trust, and rejoice in,
and plead his promises, relative to myself and his
church. Let me ponder, whether I have heard his
voice, shared his saving pity, feasted on his spiritual
provision, and worshipped him in spirit, and in
truth! And whether it is the desire of my soul to
cause his name to be remembered to all generations.

Psalm 23 A Psalm of David.
        Here is the children's psalm, and which is, in
very deed, a noted song of all the children of God.
Behold, (1.) New-covenant relation to God, as a full
and everlasting security against hurtful wants, ver.
1. (2.) Pleasant experience of God's acting up to his
new-covenant character, in disposing of, directing,
assisting, feasting and comforting his people, ver. 2-
3, 5. (3.) Well-grounded hopes of God's careful and
seasonable supplies; of his comfortable presence
and help amidst distress and death; of the perpetual
and everlasting manifestation of his mercy and
grace to us-ward; and of our endless nearness to,
and immediate enjoyment of him, ver. 1, 4, 5-6.
       While I sing, let me think, as before God,
whether I have the experimental knowledge of all
these things. Let my soul be as a daughter of the
horse-leech, crying mightily, Give, give what is
good. And let me, in all these forms, taste and see
that God is good.

Psalm 24
        Probably this psalm was penned for use of
the Hebrews, when David brought up the ark of
God to Jerusalem, or when Solomon brought it into
the temple, 2 Sam. 6, 1 Kings 8, in order to raise
their hearts above their external ceremonies, to a
reception of, and walking in Christ, who was
thereby prefigured. Observe, (1.) Christ's kingdom
of nature, comprehending the whole world and all
the inhabitants thereof, ver. 1-2. (2.) His kingdom
of grace in the nature of it; the gracious character of
its subjects; and their charter to their everlasting
happiness above, ver. 3-6. (3.) Under the figure of a
call to admit the ark, we have a solemn summons,
issued forth by God, for the heavens to receive
Jesus, our glorious and almighty King, into their
blissful abodes in his ascension; and for us to
receive him into our hearts and societies below, ver.
7-10.
        While I sing, let me be affected with the
double claim the Redeemer hath on me as his
creature, and as his ransomed one. Let me try
whether I possess the distinguishing characters of a
real saint; and whether I have received an
abundance of the gift of righteousness, and of
blessedness from the God of my salvation. Let me
charge, let me rouse up all my inward powers, to
receive Jesus Christ the Lord, as made of God unto
me, wisdom, and righteousness, and sanctification,
and redemption.

Psalm 25 A Psalm of David.
        In singing this psalm, let me observe, (1.)
What serious work prayer is; what lifting up of soul,
what directing of eyes to God, and fixing them on
him, must be in it! ver. 1-15. (2.) What mercies
ought to be prayed for Pardon of sin, ver. 6, 7-18;
direction in duty, ver. 4-5; familiar intimacy with
God, ver. 10; deliverance from trouble, ver. 17-18;
preservation from adversaries, ver. 20-21; and, in
fine, safety and deliverance to the church, ver. 22.
(3.)What pleas are proper to be used in prayer; as,
the trust we have reposed in God, ver. 2-3, 5-21; our
own divinely affected sincerity in the Lord's way,
ver. 21; our distress, and the malice of our enemies,
ver. 2, 16-19; but chiefly, the mercy that is in God,
and the glory which redounds to his name from his
bestowing of new-covenant favours, ver. 6-11. (4.)
Strong encouragements to prayer taken from the
perfections of God's nature; from his promises of
instruction and direction; from the fulness and grace
of his covenant; and from his delight in allowing
men familiar intimacy and fellowship with himself,
ver. 8-14.
        Let these things, my soul, be the object of
thy strictest care and attention, in all thy addresses
to God.

Psalm 26 A Psalm of David.
        Here, (1.) David solemnly appeals to God
concerning his integrity; his constant regard to him
and his grace; his regular attendance upon instituted
ordinances: and his fixed aversion to sin and
sinners, ver. 1-8. (2.) He deprecates from himself,
the condemnation of the wicked, and his being shut
up in society with them, ver. 9-10. (3.) Depending
on the mercy of God, he resolves to hold fast his
integrity, and maintain his confident hopes of
eternal life, ver. 11-12.
        While I sing, let the perfect God-man come
into my mind. Let me wash myself in his blood, and
so compass God's altar with songs of praise for his
favours. Making Jesus' example my pattern, let his
ordinances be my pleasure, and his people my sole
intimates and familiars on earth.

Psalm 27 A Psalm of David.
        For thy instruction, my soul, behold here,
(1.) The holy courage and undaunted bravery of true
faith, amidst manifold dangers and enemies, ver. 1-
3. (2.) What earnestness there ought to be, and what
pleasure, profit, and honour there are, in the study
of familiar fellowship with God, ver. 4-6. (3.)
Fervent desires, with strong cries and supplications,
for the gracious favour, spiritual presence, and
saving direction and protection of God, ver. 7-12.
(4.) Strong and encouraging expectations of help,
favour and strength from God, ver. 10, 13-14.
        While I sing, let my soul enter the very
marrow of these matters. Let God himself be relied
on, as my trust, my Saviour, and my all in all. Let
my heart burn with superlative desires after the
knowledge and enjoyment of him. Let nothing less
than the most familiar communion with him here,
and the full enjoyment of him hereafter, satisfy my
longings. Let me readily embrace every invitation to
seek his face. Amidst enemies and distresses
unnumbered, let me always believe in, wait for, and
boast of God my only Lord.

Psalm 28 A Psalm of David.
        Observe here, (1.) David, amidst great
distress, earnestly supplicating deliverance from his
God, ver. 1-3. (2.) His implacable enemies doomed
to the just punishment of their sin, ver. 4-5. (3.)
Himself triumphing in God, as the hearer of his
prayers, and as his protector, help and strength, ver.
6-8. (4.) His solemn supplication for salvation and
blessedness; for nourishment, honour, and safety to
the people of God, ver. 9.
        While I remember Jesus of Nazareth whose
cries in trouble were so vehement; whose
implacable enemies incur such fearful misery; and
who being exalted to the right hand of God, and
made full of joy with his countenance, maketh
continual intercession for his chosen race let my
soul lift up her voice to God, for rich and
everlasting blessings to myself and his church.

Psalm 29 A Psalm of David.
        This psalm was probably composed on the
occasion of a thunderstorm. It is a solemn charge
from heaven, to great men to worship and glorify
God; who (1.) In his magnificence and power
thundereth in the most terrible, alarming, and
destructive manner, ver. 1-9. (2.) Who is supreme
Governor of the world, and bestoweth strength and
peace on his peculiar people, ver. 10-11.
        While I sing, let me by faith behold the glory
of God in Christ, and be filled with reverential awe
of his power and grace. And while I adore his
perfections, admire and praise his excellencies, let
Jerusalem come into my mind; and let me
apprehend the promise, and pour forth a prayer for
the remnant which is left.

Psalm 30 A Psalm and Song at the dedication of the house
of David.
         In this psalm, composed for the dedication
of the new palace which David had built for himself
at Jerusalem, 2 Sam. 5:11, or for the dedication of it
after it had been polluted by Absalom, 2 Sam. 16,
he (1.) Offers thanksgiving to God for the
answering of his prayers, the overthrowing of his
enemies, and the preserving of his life, ver. 1-3, 11-
12. (2.) He calls and chargeth others, to praise the
Lord, on account of the purity of his nature, the
short duration of his frowns, and the sweetness of
his favours, ver. 4-5. (3.) He remarks, how his
carnal security, under prosperity, had occasioned his
sudden fall into divine hidings and frowns, ver. 6-7.
(4.) He recollects what supplications he had made to
God, in his former distress, ver. 8-10. (5.) He
triumphs in the kindness of God towards him; and
resolves to praise and thank him for evermore on
account of it, ver. 11-12.
        While I sing, let me with grateful heart
remember the Lord's mercies. Let me remember my
own follies; and how the Lord corrected me for
them. Let me look after my prayers, and wait for an
answer. And the nearer my end draweth, let my
heart and mouth be the more abundantly filled with
the high praises of my God, and my Saviour.

Psalm 31 To the chief Musician, A Psalm of David.
       Observe here, (1.) David's solemn
professions of his dependence upon God, and his
prayers for support and deliverance, ver. 1-8. (2.)
His sad complaints of inward grief, bodily
weakness, unkindness of friends, unjust censures of
enemies, and horror of death; attended with a
solemn commitment of himself to God's mercy and
care, and earnest supplication for deliverance from
enemies, ver. 9-18. (3.) Amidst admiration of God's
kindness to his people, and thanksgiving for favours
to himself, he encourageth himself and others firmly
to trust in God, ver. 19-24.
         While I sing, let me be deeply affected with
my sores, my maladies, and troubles; and cast all
my burdens on the Lord. In the assured faith that he
is God, even my God, let me admire his gracious
thoughts, words, and deeds to me-ward; and commit
myself wholly to his care and protection.

Psalm 32 A Psalm of David, Maschil.
       Perhaps this psalm was composed for the
great day of the national atonement, on the tenth
day of the seventh month, Lev. 16. In it observe,
(1.) The exceeding riches of the grace of God,
manifested in blessing men with forgiveness of sin,
and with protection amidst dangers, and direction in
duty, ver. 1-2, 7-8. (2.) The indispensable duty of
them who desire new-covenant blessings; viz. to
acknowledge their offences to God; to implore his
favour, which they need; to walk humbly and
circumspectly before him, and to rejoice in him as
God and their God, ver. 3-6, 9-11.
       While I am truly conscious of my sinfulness,
and deeply affected therewith, let the faith and
experience of Jesus' full pardon of my sins, and of
the communications of his grace, melt my heart, and
animate me to every commanded duty.

Psalm 33
        Contains a sweet but solemn summons to
praise the Lord, (1.) For his justice, goodness, and
truth, manifested in his word and works, ver. 1-5.
(2.) For his power, manifested in the works of
creation, and in his sovereign dominion over the
world, ver. 6-11, 13-17. (3.) For his special and
new-covenant relations, and merciful kindness
towards his chosen people, ver. 12, 18-22.
        While I sing, let me observe, let me admire,
and be deeply affected with the blessings of
creation, providence, and redemption. And chiefly
let me remember, let me behold, let me glow with
ardent desire after him, whose bones the Lord so
kept, that not one of them was broken.

Psalm 34 A Psalm of David, when he changed his
behaviour before Abimelech; who drove him away, and he
departed.
        This psalm was composed by David, when
Achish, or Abimelech, king of Gath, drove him
from his court as an idiot or madman, 1 Sam. 21:10-
15. Here are, (1.) David's high praises to God, for
the favours himself and others had received, ver. 1-
6. (2.) His warm invitations and strong
encouragements to others to seek after and fear the
Lord, and to trust in him for all necessary supplies,
in time, or in eternity, ver. 7-10. (3.) Familiar advice
to children and others to eschew every thing sinful,
and make conscience of known duty, both towards
God and man, as a means of present and future
happiness, ver. 11-14. (4.) A representation of the
misery of the wicked, in having God against them
as an avenging enemy, and in having ruin before
them as the just reward of their sins; and of the
happiness of the godly, in having God near to them
in every case, ready to hear their requests, to protect
them amidst dangers, and to deliver them from
enemies and trouble, ver. 15-22.
        While I sing, let my heart be warmed with
my subject. Come my soul, and walk in this light, in
these joys of the Lord: Come, taste and see that he
is good; extol his kindness, and trust him in all
things, and on every occasion.

Psalm 35 A Psalm of David.
        In this psalm, (1.) David, as a type of Christ,
complains of the cruelty of his enemies, in striving
with him, in persecuting him, in seeking his ruin,
and in reproaching, contemning, deriding, and
triumphing over him, ver. 1, 3-4, 7, 11, 15-16, 20-
21, 25-26. (2.) He pleads his own innocency, that he
had never given them any provocation; but, amidst
their abuse of him, had earnestly and affectionately
studied to promote their welfare, ver. 7, 9, 12-14.
(3.) He supplicates that God would espouse his
cause, protect, deliver, and comfort his soul, defeat
the designs, and disappoint the expectations of his
enemies; and that he would countenance and
encourage his friends, ver. 1-2, 4, 17, 22-27. (4.) He
predicts the destruction of his enemies, and the
abounding of his own comfort; and in the views
hereof, resolves to thank and praise the Lord, ver. 4-
10, 18, 28.
        While I sing, let me, with grief and shame,
call to mind the infernal opposition, I and others
have made to our all -compassionate Redeemer. Let
me beware of exposing myself to that vengeance,
which is laid up in store for his incorrigible
enemies. Let me never avenge myself on my
injurious neighbours: But amidst all attacks from
hell or earth, or from my own corrupt heart, let me
commit all my concerns to him who judgeth
righteously, that he may bring them to pass.

Psalm 36 To the chief Musician, A Psalm of David, the
servant of the Lord.
         Observe here, (1.) How great is the
wickedness of men! They naturally contemn God,
flatter themselves in sin, and abandon themselves to
falsehood and mischief, ver. 1, 4. (2.) How great is
the excellency of God, in truth, in righteousness,
and in mercy! And what a fountain of preservation,
support, comfort, light, and life, he is to his people!
ver 5-9. (3.) How, from the excellency and
goodness of          God, the psalmist           draws
encouragement, to pray for himself and other saints,
and to triumph in the view of his enemies' ruin, ver.
10-12.
         While I sing, let me review my natural
abominations and wretchedness, and try, whether
the Lord hath made me a new creature, created in
Christ Jesus unto good works; and whether he hath
made me taste of, admire, and trust in the exceeding
riches of his grace.

Psalm 37 A Psalm of David.
        This psalm is wholly of the instructive kind.
As the Mosaic system, and the covenant between
God and Israel, as his peculiar people, promised
remarkable temporal felicity to such as were
obedient to the law, and denounced temporal
miseries against those that were impious and
profane; so the psalmist here cautions against
stumbling at particular providences, which might
appear contrary to the tenour of that covenant. Here
are, (1.) Plain and express warnings against
fretfulness at the prosperity of the wicked, in their
wickedness, ver. 1, 7-8; with the arguments and
reasons enforcing the same, viz. that the character
of the wicked is ignominious, while that of the
righteous is honourable, ver. 12, 14, 21, 26, 30-32;
that the wicked, in the very height of their
prosperity, are near to destruction, while the
righteous, even in their adversity, have special
protection from God, and shall never be ruined, ver.
2, 9-10, 13, 15, 17, 20, 28, 33-40; and that God hath
special blessings in store for, and even in this life
manifests distinguished kindness to, the righteous
and their seed, ver. 11, 16, 18-19, 22-25, 28-29, 37.
(2.) Here are proper and effectual remedies to
prevent sinful fretting at the prosperity of the
wicked, or troubles of the godly, viz. hoping in God
as our Saviour; delighting in God as our companion,
friend and portion; following him as our guide;
departing from evil and doing good; waiting on the
Lord, and keeping his way, ver. 3-6, 27, 34.
        Be thou, my soul, an accurate observer, of
the matter and circumstances of every providence.
Carefully compare them one with another; and all
with perfections, covenant, and promises of God; in
order that thou mayest never be offended thereat.

Psalm 38 A Psalm of David, to bring to remembrance.
        This psalm appears to have been penned by
David, under some remarkable distress, attended
with a deep sense of sin as the procuring cause of it.
Here are, (1.) David's sorrowful complaints of God's
sore displeasure, and of the weight of his own sins,
ver. 1-5; of the sickness of his body, and distress of
his mind, ver. 6-10; of the unkindness of his friends,
ver. 11; and of the unprovoked injuries he received
from his enemies, who were spiteful, cruel, subtile,
unjust, ungrateful, impious, devilish, numerous and
powerful, ver. 12, 20. (2.) His remarkable patience
and resignation under his troubles, ver. 13-15. (3.)
His fervent supplications to God for the mitigation
of his troubles, ver. 1; and for comfort and support
under, and speedy deliverance from them, ver. 16,
21-22; attended with candid and ingenuous
acknowledgment of the sinful causes thereof, ver. 3-
5, 18.
        In all my troubles, let me search out, and by
faith confess and mourn over the sinful causes of
them. Let me take every distress as out of God's
hand; and call on him in the time thereof, that he
may deliver me.

Psalm 39 To the chief Musician, even to Jeduthan, A Psalm
of David.
         Here we have, (1.) Violent struggling in the
psalmist's own breast between grace and corruption;
between passion and patience, ver. 1-3, 11. (2.)
Serious views of human frailty, shortness of life,
and self-emptiness, ver. 4-6. (3.) Strong cries to
God, for pardon of sin, preservation from reproach,
and for removal of trouble; for hearing and
answering of prayer, and for lengthening out of life,
till further preparation for death should be attained,
ver. 7-13.
         While I sing, let my soul blush deep, for the
untenderness and want of circumspection, in my
life, and for my want of resignation to God's
disposing will. Let me be suitably affected with the
shortness, vanity, and uncertainty of my temporal
life. Let me be always exercised in earnest prayer
to, and believing dependence on God, as my
companion and friend.

Psalm 40 To the chief Musician, A Psalm of David.
        Here we have, (1.) David's hearty
acknowledgments of God's kindness, in bringing
him out of long and sore afflictions, ver. 1-5. (2.)
His preferring of holy obedience to God, and
faithful publication of his truths and praises, to all
ceremonial oblations, ver. 6-11. (3.) His
improvement of his former deliverance, as an
encouragement to supplicate further mercy and
protection; an encouragement to confess sin, and
implore the pardon thereof; an encouragement to
rejoice in, and praise God for his excellencies and
favours; to trust him under affliction, and to
comfort himself in him, as his help and Saviour,
amidst poverty, sinfulness, and trouble, ver. 12-17.
        But let me here chiefly think, (1.) Of Jesus
the great Shepherd of the sheep, who was brought
again from his agonies and death, by the blood of
the everlasting covenant, and set down at the right
hand of the Majesty on high, that he might receive
gifts for men, and that our faith and hope might be
in God, ver. 1-5. (2.) Let me think of the new
covenant, made between him and his eternal Father,
for the redemption of sinful men; and of his
complete fulfilment of the divine law as the
condition thereof, ver. 6-10. (3.) Let me think how
our iniquities were charged to his account, and
punished on him, as our Surety, ver. 11-13. (4.) Let
me think how the unrelenting vengeance of
Almighty God, overtook his Jewish betrayers and
murderers; and hath, or will overtake his
Heathenish, Antichristian, or other implacable
enemies; and of the joy and consolation, which flow
from and through him to his chosen friends, ver. 14-
17.

Psalm 41 To the chief Musician, A Psalm of David.
       This psalm contains, (1.) A representation of
the blessedness of him who wisely considereth the
case of the poor, and affords them relief, ver. 1-3.
(2.) David's candid acknowledgments of the
justness of his affliction, and earnest supplications
for a merciful deliverance, ver. 4. (3.) His sad
complaints of the malicious, censorious, and
spiteful reflections, and of the insolent carriage of
his enemies, ver. 5-9. (4.) His hearty committing of
his case and way to God, in the assured and
triumphant faith of his favour, ver. 10-13.
        While I sing, let mine eyes be toward the
Lord Jesus, who thought on me in my low estate.
Let me consider him, who, though he was rich, yet
for our sakes became poor, that we through his
poverty might be made rich Jesus, who had not
where to lay his head; Jesus whom his own disciple
betrayed; and who through manifold enemies and
much tribulation, entered into the kingdom of God!

Book II

Psalm 42 To the chief Musician, Maschil, for the sons of
Korah.
       Perhaps this psalm was composed by David,
when the unnatural rebellion of Absalom had forced
him from the sanctuary of God, and to take up his
lodging eastward of Jordan, 2 Sam. 15:13-19. We
have in it, (1.) Ardent longings after nearness to,
and familiar intimacy with God, in his public
ordinances and sanctuary, ver. 1-2. (2.) Mournful
lamentations and bitter groanings on account of
God's withdrawing his comfortable smiles; of the
want of the once-enjoyed ordinances of God, and
fellowship with his saints; of the depressing
impressions of God's wrath; and of his enemies'
insolent upbraiding of him on account of the
departure and distance of his God, ver. 3-4, 6-7, 9-
10. (3.) Believing remembrance of God's former
favours, ver. 6; and self-encouraging hopes of
future ones, ver. 5, 8, 11.
        Have I experimentally understood all these
things? My soul, let me charge thee to beware of
dissimulation with God, and of compassing him
about with lies, under pretence of praising him.
Dare not to sing these lines without inward, without
ardent longings for the Lord; without earnest
claiming of him as thy own God, upon the
foundation of his new-covenant grant of himself to
me in the gospel; without assured hopes of his
future, his everlasting kindness to me-ward.

Psalm 43
        This psalm was probably composed on the
same occasion as the former; and contains, (1.)
David's strong cries to his God, for help against, and
deliverance from, his ungodly, unjust, and crafty
oppressors, ver. 1-2. (2.) His earnest longings to be
restored to the enjoyment of his God in his public
ordinances, ver. 3-4. (3.) His inward disquiets
composed by believing claims, of God as his God,
and firm dependence on his promises, ver. 5.
        While I sing, let my soul be deeply affected
with the injuries I daily receive from Satan and my
own lusts. Let my heart and flesh cry out for God,
the living God, as my God, and mine exceeding joy.
And let me still all the tumults of my heart with this
That he is my God and my all; my God that doth
me save.

Psalm 44 To the chief Musician for the sons of Korah,
Maschil.
         This psalm was perhaps composed on the
same occasion as the 60th, and may have a
prophetic view to the after distresses of the Jews in
the time of Rehoboam, 2 Chron. 12; of Jehoram, 2
Chron. 21; of Ahaz, 2 Chron. 28; of Hezekiah, 2
Kings 18-19; and during the Chaldean captivity,
Syro-Grecian oppression, etc.; and all these as
typical of the distresses of the gospel church under
heathens and Anti-Christians. It relates chiefly to
the church, and contains, (1.) Thankful
acknowledgments of what the Lord had done for her
in former periods, as her God, her king, her joy, her
praise, ver. 1-8. (2.) Sorrowful complaints of divine
desertion; and of the prevalent power, cruelty, and
derisive contempt of enemies, ver. 9-16. (3.)
Solemn protestation of continued integrity, and of
constant adherence to the Lord's way, amidst these
manifold calamities, ver. 17-22. (4.) Strong cries,
with supplications and tears to God, for his merciful
appearance for and granting her relief, ver. 23-26.
         In singing this, let me rejoice with them that
rejoice, and weep with them that weep. Let me
rejoice in what the Lord hath wrought for his
people, in any former period; and in all their
afflictions let me be afflicted. Let me give the Lord
no rest, till he make his church a joy in the whole
earth.

Psalm 45 To the chief Musician upon Shoshannim, for the
sons of Korah, Maschil, A Song of loves.
        In this song of loves, are celebrated, (1.) The
glories of Jesus our Redeemer, particularly the
transcendant comeliness and blessedness of his
person, God-man; his almighty power in conquering
his people, and destroying his enemies; the eternity,
firmness, and equity of his government: his royal
unction with the Holy Ghost above measure; his
fitness for his work, and the splendour of his court,
ver. 1-9. (2.) The glories of the redeemed; their
listening to Jesus' proposals of marriage union with
himself; their renunciation of all others for his sake;
their reverential submission to, and worship of him,
ver. 10-11; their glorious ornaments of
righteousness and grace; and their glorious entrance
into the new covenant, and the eternal state, ver. 12-
15; their glorious succession and work, for
perpetuating the fame of the Redeemer, ver. 16-17.
        In singing this song of the Lamb, let me with
open face behold his glory, and be changed into the
same image from glory to glory, as by the Spirit of
the Lord. Let my admiration of his excellency swell
to the brim, and my love burn with a most vehement
flame; and let my hopes of being for ever with him,
be strong and lively. Let my heart be all wonder at
his excellency, fulness, and grace all subjection to
his government and laws; and let my lips be filled
with his praise and honour all the day.

Psalm 46 To the chief Musician, for the sons of Korah, A
Song upon Alomoth.
        In this psalm, probably composed for
celebrating some remarkable victory, we have, (1.)
Bold triumphs of faith in God himself, and the
mercies of the new covenant, amidst the most
alarming danger and distress which can be
supposed, ver. 1-6. (2.) A thankful rehearsal of the
great things which God had wrought for the
deliverance of his people, and the destruction of
their enemies, ver. 6-9. (3.) God's heart-composing
promise of promoting his own glory in every
providence; and faith's expectation of protection
and safety, ver 10-11.
        While I sing it, come my soul, encourage
thyself in Jehovah as thy God, and thy all. Come
drink abundantly out of Jesus' heart-gladdening
river of life his word, his blood, his Spirit, his
fulness, his love! And holding fast the beginning of
thy confidence unto the end, always give thanks.

Psalm 47 To the chief Musician, A Psalm for the sons of
Korah.
        This psalm was probably composed on the
same occasion as the 24th. Here is, (1.) A revenue
of praise demanded for God, from all people, Jews
and Gentiles, ver. 1, 6. (2.) A memorial of the
grounds of praise, viz. the majesty of God's nature,
ver. 2; the great things he had done, or would do for
his people, in subduing their foes, and providing
portions for themselves; and in ascending to
heaven, to receive gifts, and prepare places for men,
ver. 3-5; as also the high sovereignty and universal
extent of his government, ver. 2, 7-9.
        While my lips utter this song, let all my
inward powers labour in viewing, in loving, in
admiring, in extolling my great, my glorious, my
ascended, my all-governing, all-doing, and all
-giving Lord, Jesus Christ.

Psalm 48 A Song and Psalm for the sons of Korah.
        This psalm was no doubt composed to
celebrate some remark able victory or deliverance,
in the days of David, or Jehoshaphat, 2 Chron. 20;
or of Hezekiah, 2 Kings 19. We have here, (1.)
Jerusalem, the capital city of Israel, and type of the
gospel church and heavenly state, celebrated for her
beauty and relation to God, as the residence of his
temple and ordinances, ver. 1-2. (2.) Jehovah, the
God of Israel, celebrated for his kind and powerful
protection of Jerusalem, and for making her
enemies flee off with much precipitation and terror,
ver. 3-7. (3.) The people of God, particularly in
Jerusalem, meditating upon, and celebrating the
gracious and mighty things, which God had, or
would do for them, and for his discoveries of
himself to them; and promising themselves sure and
lasting happiness in his relation to, and direction of
them, ver. 8-14.
        While I sing these verses, let me be deeply
affected with the glory, with the privileges, and
chiefly with the God of the Christian church, and of
the new-covenant state, and of the new Jerusalem,
which is above, which is the mother, and the desired
city of us all.

Psalm 49 To the chief Musician, A Psalm for the sons of
Korah.
        This psalm is a mirror calculated to exhibit
the emptiness of all worldly enjoyments. Observe,
(1.) David's earnest attempt to awaken all ranks of
mankind to a serious consideration of this matter, as
a point of great importance and universal concern,
ver. 1-4. (2.) His irrefragable proofs of the vanity of
earthly enjoyments viz., that they cannot save from
death either a man's self or his friend; and that they
cannot make men wise or happy in this world, and
far less render them happy in the future state, ver. 6-
14. (3.) His attempt to comfort himself and other
saints, under the sense of their daily infirmities, and
of the chastisements received on account of their
sins; and against the slavish fears of death, and
temptations arising from the prosperity of the
wicked, ver. 5, 15-18.
        While I sing, let me bewail my sinful
minding of, and idolatrous attachment to earthly
things. Let me be henceforth as a weaned child,
setting my affections on things above, where Christ
is at the right hand of God. Let no uncertain riches
or honours, but the living God, be the object of all
my trust and joy.

Psalm 50 A Psalm of Asaph.
        This psalm may be considered as a rebuke to
the carnal Jews who rested in, and boasted of their
external ceremonies in worship, to the neglect of the
weightier matters of the law mercy, judgment, and
faith; or as a prediction of the coming of Christ, to
abolish the ceremonial worship, eject the Jews from
his church, and establish a more pure and spiritual
form of worship under the gospel: or, in fine, as a
representation of the last judgment; in which Christ
shall come, to render to every man according to his
deeds. Observe, (1.) The awful appearance of God
our Redeemer, in the flesh, in power, or in the
clouds; with the gathering of the people to him, ver.
1-6. (2.) An engaging admonition to improve God's
new-covenant grant of himself to be our God, as an
excitement to exchange legal ceremonies into
prayer, thanksgiving and holy obedience; or, at
least, to give a remarkable preference to the latter,
ver. 7-15. (3.) A terrible charge of hypocrisy,
slander, contempt of God's word, and of atheistical
imaginations concerning God, laid against the
wicked, with a fearful sentence of condemnation
founded thereon, ver. 16-22. (4.) An alarming
warning of danger to the forgetters of God, and an
encouraging promise to such as study to glorify him
by a holy conversation, ver. 22-23.
        Sing this, my soul, with solemn awe,
assisted before the great Searcher of hearts, and as
by faith beholding Jesus in my nature, sitting on his
great white throne, gathering the nations to his bar,
opening the books, and judging mankind out of the
things found written therein.

Psalm 51 To the chief Musician, A Psalm of David, when
Nathan the prophet came unto him, after he had gone into
Bathsheba.
        This psalm was penned by David, when
reproved by Nathan for his adultery with Bathsheba,
and for his murder of Uriah, 2 Sam. 12. We have in
it, (1.) David's candid and truly sorrowful
acknowledgments of his sin, particularly his
adultery and murder, as highly dishonouring to
God; and of his original sin, as the source thereof,
ver. 1-5, 17. (2.) His earnest supplications for
pardon of his offences, and for heart-purifying, and
renewing grace; for renewed influences of the Holy
Ghost; for peace of conscience, and comfortable
fellowship with God, for himself, ver. 1-2, 6-15;
and for reformation of, and prosperity to the church,
which had been hurt by his sin, ver. 18-19. (3.) His
sincere purposes of heart, to improve God's favour
to himself, in promoting the instruction of others,
and in giving them an honourable pattern of an
exact celebration of God's public worship, ver. 13-
16, 19.
        While I sing this penitential psalm, let my
heart be filled with clear but evangelic views of my
aggravated, my unnumbered transgressions; and
with deep sorrow and remorse for them. Let me
pour forth supplications, strong cries and tears to
him who is able to forgive all mine iniquities, and
to deliver me from every corruption. Let me wash
myself in Jesus' blood, as the fountain opened to
men for sin and for uncleanness.

Psalm 52 To the chief Musician, Maschil, A Psalm of David,
when Doeg the Edomite came and told Saul, and said unto
him, David is come to the house of Ahimelech.
        This psalm relates to Doeg the Edomite,
who informed Saul how Ahimelech the high priest
had entertained David and his servants; and who, in
consequence thereof, had murdered Ahimelech, and
above fourscore other priests, 1 Sam. 22. Here, (1.)
David charges Doeg that, notwithstanding the
manifested and everlasting goodness of God, he
gloried in his malice, craft, cruelty, and other
wickedness, ver. 1-5. (2.) By the spirit of prophecy
he condemns him for his wickedness, to be plucked
from his dwelling, and rooted out of the land of the
living, to the great joy of the fearers of God, ver. 6-
7. (3.) He comforts himself in the everlasting mercy
of God, and with the assured hopes that he should
yet praise him for his kindness, ver, 8-9.
        Learn, O my soul, to detest all deceit and
cruelty. Learn to imitate the goodness of God,
which endureth continually; and while friends are
cut off, or foes prevail, let me live by faith on a
gracious God, as my all and in all.

Psalm 53 To the chief Musician upon Mahalath, Maschil, A
Psalm of David.
       This psalm is much the same as the 14th. It
speaks, (1.) Humbling convictions to all men, of
their sinfulness of nature and practice, ver. 1-3. (2.)
Fearful terrors to them who persecute and oppress
the people of God, ver. 4-5. (3.) Abundant comfort,
in the salvation of God to his persecuted saints, ver.
5-6.
        Learn, my soul, frequently to review thy
original and thy contracted filthiness. Admire the
patience and mercy of God towards mankind. Trust
not in man, for wherein is he to be accounted of!
But in the full assurance of faith, wait patiently for
God's salvation.

Psalm 54 To the chief Musician on Neginoth, Maschil, A
Psalm of David, when the Ziphims came and said to Saul,
Doth not David hide himself with us?
        This psalm was composed when the
Ziphites, men of the same tribe with David,
instigated Saul to destroy him, and directed him
how to accomplish it, 1 Sam. 23-24. It contains, (1.)
David's strong cries to his God, that he would save
and judge him, and hear his requests, ver. 1-2. (2.)
Bitter complaints of the oppression and impiety of
his enemies, ver. 3. (3.) His triumphant consolation
in the view of what God was to him, and would do
for him, intermixed with holy resolutions to praise
God for his kindness, ver. 4-7.
        While Satan and my lusts, and the men of
the world, unite to destroy me, let me call on God.
Let me be strong in the Lord, and in the power of
his might. Let me rejoice in him, who hath
delivered, who doth deliver, and in whom I trust
that he will deliver me.

Psalm 55 To the chief Musician on Neginoth, Maschil, A
Psalm of David.
        This psalm was probably penned by David
when he fled from Jerusalem for fear of Absalom
his son, 2 Sam. 15-16. Observe, (1.) David's earnest
prayers for help and favour from God, amidst his
great oppression, griefs, and fears, ver. 1-8. (2.) His
request for the just manifestation of God's
vengeance, in the dispersion and destruction of his
enemies, who, in Jerusalem, particularly
Ahithophel, had behaved in so base and treacherous
a manner, ver. 9-15. (3.) Resolved on frequent and
fervent prayer, he encourages himself and friends to
trust in God for support and deliverance, and for the
speedy destruction of their enemies, however
deceitful and bloody, ver. 16-23.
        While I sing, behold, my soul, as in a glass,
how Jesus our Redeemer, was hated, was betrayed,
and murdered by his brethren of Judah, at
Jerusalem; and how the fearful vengeance of the
Almighty overtook them, on that account. And if I
am oppressed, defamed, or persecuted, that I know
not whither to flee; if in cities, or by particular
friends, wickedness and malice discover
themselves, let me study resignation to the disposals
of Providence, and call upon God in the assured
hopes that he will answer in due time. Let me cast
all my wants and burdens on him, who is my God,
that doth me save.

Psalm 56 To the chief Musician upon Jonath-elem-
rechokim, Michtam of David, when the Philistines took him in
Gath.
        This psalm was penned by David, when the
Philistines apprehended him in Gath, 1 Sam. 21:10-
15. It contains, (1.) His earnest supplications to God
for merciful protection, and deliverance from his
enemies, who were barbarous, powerful, crafty,
malicious, and restless, ver. 1-2, 5-7. (2.) His
assured confidence in God, as his own God, who
had spoken good concerning him, and took
particular notice of his grievances, ver. 3-4, 8, 11.
(3.) Firm hopes that his prayers should issue in the
defeat of his enemies, and that his faith would set
him above the slavish fears of men, ver. 9-11; and
that, while he paid his vows to God, he should have
further occasion to praise the Lord, for what he had
done, and would do for him, ver. 12-13.
        Thus let me, in all my straits, have recourse
to God. While his promises remain infallible, let me
rejoice therein, and, without anxiety, cheerfully
expect their fulfillment.

Psalm 57 To the chief Musician, Al-taschith, Michtam of
David, when he fled from Saul in the cave.
        This psalm was penned by David, when he
fled from Saul in the cave; 1 Sam. 24; and contains,
(1.) David's earnest betaking of himself to God
upon whom all his dependence, was fixed, towards
whom all his desires were bent, and from whom
only he expected relief for mercy amidst his great
troubles, ver. 1-2. (2.) His complaints of the cruelty,
malice, and calumnious deceit of his inveterate
enemies, ver. 3-4, 6. (3.) His believing triumph in
God; in which he prepares himself for praising God,
excites himself to it, delights himself in it, and
furnisheth himself with matter for it, ver. 7-10. (4.)
Conscious of his own inability to praise God
enough, he leaves it on God, to exalt and glorify
himself, ver. 5-11.
        While I sing, let me cry aloud for mercy; let
me lay my spiritual and temporal adversities before
the Lord; and let me triumph in the God of my
salvation; and employ him to glorify his name in all
the earth.

Psalm 58 To the chief Musician, Al-taschith, Michtam of
David.
        This psalm was probably composed by
David, when Saul carried on some kind of legal
prosecution against him, which is not mentioned in
the history of his reign. Here, (1.) He describes the
corruption of these judges' government, in
neglecting to do justice, and in readiness to do
injustice; and the corruption of their nature, with
their     malice,     falsehood,     and      obstinate
untractableness, ver. 1-5. (2.) He prays that God
would disable them to perpetrate mischief; would
defeat their projects, and weaken their influence,
ver. 6-8. (3.) He predicts their ruin, as calculated to
promote the comfort of the godly, and the
conviction of sinners, ver. 9-11.
        While I sing, let me search out my
corruptions, and bewail my obstinate refusals of
Jesus Christ, and the counsels of his word. Let me
dread the speedy, but awful vengeance of God, if I
regard iniquity in my heart, or indulge it in my life.

Psalm 59 To the chief Musician, Al-taschith, Michtam of
David; when Saul sent, and they watched the house to kill
him.
        This psalm was penned by David, when Saul
sent messengers to watch his house in order to kill
him, 1 Sam. 19. In it, as in the seven immediately
preceding, we have, (1.) David's bitter complaints
of his enemies, as wicked, barbarous, malicious,
and atheistical, ver. 1-7. (2.) His predictory prayers
that God would expose these enemies to contempt
and derision; make them standing monuments of his
just indignation; deal with them according to their
sins; consume them in his wrath; and even render
their sin their punishment, ver. 8, 10, 15. (3.) His
holy resolutions to wait upon God, till his
judgments should be executed upon them; and then
to praise him for his protecting power, ver. 9-10,
16-17.
        While I sing, let me think of the opposition
made to David's Lord, and of the unrelenting
vengeance which hath overtaken his enemies,
Jewish and Heathen, and shall overtake his
Antichristian and other opposers. While his honours
are trampled under foot, let me wait on, and trust in
God; that at last I may join in the hallelujahs of his
people, when the smoke of his enemies' torment
ascendeth up for ever and ever.

Psalm 60 To the chief Musician upon Shushan-eduth,
Michtam of David, to teach; when he strove with Aram-
naharaim, and with Aram-zobah, when Joab returned and
smote of Edom, in the valley of Salt, twelve thousand.
        This psalm was penned by David, during his
wars with the Syrians and Edomites, 2 Sam. 8.
Here, (1.) He bewails the tokens of God's
displeasure with Israel, in the breaking and
disjointing of the nation, under Saul and Ishbosheth,
ver. 1-3. (2.) In thankful contemplation of the late
revival he had given to their affairs by his own
accession to the throne, and victories over the
Philistines, Moabites, etc., he beseeches God to
grant them victory over, and rest from all their other
enemies, ver. 4-5. (3.) In the confident expectation
of God's fulfilment of his promises, along with the
importunate supplication, he expresseth his
triumphant hopes, that God would quickly subdue
every enemy, the fortified cities of Edom not
excepted, ver. 6-12.
        In all my distressed cases, let me rejoice in
the banner, the ensign given and displayed to the
nations; and in the faith of God's promise let me
firmly expect victory over every spiritual foe, and
rejoice in hope of the glory of God, the full
enjoyment of the Canaan that is above.

Psalm 61 To the chief Musician upon Neginoth, A Psalm of
David.
        Here, (1.) David, in commemorating what
the Lord had formerly done to him, and in the faith
of what he had promised, cries to God for comfort
and protection, amidst great troubles, ver. 1-4. (2.)
In the view of what God had and would for ever do
for him, he supplicates necessary mercies, and
resolves on everlasting praise and thanksgiving to
God, as his bounden duty, ver. 5-8.
        So may all providences, distressful or
smiling, lead my soul to a thankful panting for God,
as my all and in all.

Psalm 62 To the chief Musician, to Jeduthun, A Psalm of
David.
        In this psalm, (1.) David solemnly avows his
manifold relations to God; his composed
dependence on, fixed trust in, and quiet waiting for
God; and his hopes of the ruin of his enemies, ver.
1-7. (2.) He earnestly encourageth others to trust in,
and call on God, who is infinite in power, mercy,
and justice; and to beware of trusting in men, or in
outward riches or honours, which are deceitful, and
unsubstantial, ver. 8-12.
        While I sing, go thou, my soul, and do
likewise. Be weaned from all dependence on
creatures; but cleave to, and depend on this all-
sufficient Jehovah, as answerable to all thy needs,
all thy desires, all thy enjoying powers, for time and
for eternity. Then, O how fixed in safety! and how
filled with the consolations of Christ!

Psalm 63 A Psalm of David, when he was in the wilderness
of Judah.
        This psalm was penned by David, while he
hid himself from the fury of Saul, in the wilderness
of Judah, 1 Sam. 22:5; or 23:14, 24-25; or 24:1; or,
when he fled from Absalom, 2 Sam. 25-26. We
have, (1.) His strong faith, working in ardent desires
after the most familiar fellowship with God in
public ordinances, ver. 1-2. (2.) His superlative
estimation of God, issuing in hearty resolutions to
be for ever employed in his praise, ver. 3-4. (3.) His
heart-ravishing satisfaction in God, amidst secret
and fixed meditation on his excellencies and love,
ver. 5-6. (4.) His joyful dependence on God, as his
Saviour and portion, ver. 7-8. (5.) His holy triumph
in God, as his preserver, and the destroyer of his
enemies, ver. 9-11.
        While I sing these high praises of God, let
my soul be strong in the faith, giving glory to God;
embracing the promise of himself, and calling all
the fulness of the Godhead my own. Let me be all in
raptures of divine love, and holy delight; let no
guile, no corruption, no carnal care, enervate or
damp my inward powers: but let all be opened, be
wide stretched to grasp my infinite all the great I
Am.

Psalm 64 To the chief Musician, A Psalm of David.
       This psalm contains, (1.) David's earnest
supplications for preservation from his enemies,
who were so spiteful in their calumnious
reproaches; so close and subtile in their malicious
plots; and so industrious and active, in executing
their cruel projects, ver. 1-6. (2.) His predictions,
that God, by just vengeance, would quickly render
these enemies a terror to themselves and others, and
an occasion of holy joy and confidence to the saints,
ver. 7-10.
        While I sing, let me commit my spiritual
enemies into the hand of God, who is able to
destroy them, and will quickly, to my everlasting
comfort, tread them all under my feet.

Psalm 65 To the chief Musician, A Psalm and Song of
David.
        Here we are directed to praise God, (1.) For
his kindness manifested in his kingdom of grace in
hearing prayers; in pardoning iniquities; in
satisfying the souls of his people with his blessings;
and in protecting and supporting them in every
exigence, ver. 1-5. (2.) For his kindness in the
kingdom of Providence in fixing the mountains; in
calming the seas; in preserving the regular
succession of day and night; and in rendering the
fields fruitful, and the flocks numerous and happy,
ver. 6-13.
        While I sing, let praise wait, in my soul, for
the Lord; and let me pour out my heart before him.
Under a deep sense of guilt and pollution, let me
believe his unbounded forgiveness, and sanctifying
influence. Let me come even to his seat, and enjoy
ravishing fellowship with him. Let all my
confidence be fixed on him; and, even in the
blessings of Providence, let me discern the
exceeding riches of his grace.

Psalm 66 To the chief Musician, A Song or Psalm.
        In this psalm of thanksgiving, in which the
fate of Israel is to be considered as typical of that of
the gospel church and people of God, we have, (1.)
David, as the messenger of God, calling all the
nations of mankind to praise God for the
manifestation of his sovereign dominion in his
works, so wonderful in themselves, terrible to his
enemies, comfortable to his people, and
commanding and awful to all men, ver. 1-7; and for
trying his people with afflictions, for supporting
under them, protecting amidst them, and delivering
from them at last, ver. 8-12. (2.) David, as the
servant of God, exemplifying his own exhortations
in honouring God, by costly oblations, and by
thankful declarations of what God had done for his
soul, particularly in answer to his prayers, ver. 13-
20.

Psalm 67 To the chief Musician on Neginoth, A Psalm or
Song.
        Here we have, (1.) David's prayer for the
church of Israel, ver. 1. (2.) His supplication for the
comforting, and praise-producing spread of the
gospel among the Gentiles, ver. 2-5. (3.) His
believing prospect of the divine blessings, and true
piety, which should attend the same, ver.6-7.
        While I sing, let me request the salvation of
Israel. Let me supplicate the gathering of the nations
to Shiloh. Let me praise the Lord, that already this
great work is begun; and that the Lord, who is
mighty, shall finish it in his time.

Psalm 68 To the chief Musician, A Psalm or Song of David.
         Perhaps this psalm was composed on the
same occasion as the 24th and 47th, when David
brought up the ark of God to that tabernacle, which
he had pitched for it in Zion, 2 Sam. 6. We have in
it, (1.) Fervent supplications that God would scatter
and defeat the projects of his enemies, ver. 1-2. (2.)
High praises to God for his infinite greatness and
grace; his righteous relieving of the afflicted and
oppressed; his directing of Israel in the Arabian
desert; his manifesting of his glory at Sinai; his
comfortable providing for his people in the
wilderness, and in Canaan, ver. 3-10; and for his
easy conquest of their Canaanitish enemies; his
fixing his temple on mount Zion; for the ascension
of Christ to glory, to receive gifts for men; and for
the spread of the gospel among Jews and Gentiles,
by means of the apostles; while the obstinate Jews
are severely punished, ver. 11-32; and, in fine, for
his superior dominion; his awful majesty; his
mighty power; for the glory of his sanctuary, and
the grace he bestows upon his people, ver. 33-35.
         While I sing, let me behold, let me admire,
what God is, and hath done for, and to my soul, and
to the church of God, of which I am a member. Let
me behold what God hath done, in instances
unnumbered, in prosecution of the covenant he
made with his eternal Son.

Psalm 69 To the chief Musician upon Shoshannim, A Psalm
of David.
        This psalm is much like the 22nd,
representing at once the troubles of David and of
David's Lord, and the glories which followed. We
have in it, (1.) Bitter complaints of long and sore
troubles; of the malice and multitude of enemies; of
the unkindness of friends; of general contempt: and
these mingled with candid acknowledgments of
guilt, and with supplications for God's gracious
audience and merciful deliverance, ver. 1-13. (2.)
Pleas insisted on, in these supplications, viz. the
mercy and truth of God; the psalmist's own great
distress; the insolence and cruelty of his enemies;
and the unkindness of his friends, ver. 14-21. (3.)
Predictions of the ruin of David's, and especially of
Christ's Jewish enemies; importing that their
sacrifices and their common food should be cursed
to them; that they should be plagued with judicial
blindness and wrathful disquiet; that they should be
rendered public monuments of the vengeance of
God, having their church and state quite unhinged,
and their land desolated; and, in fine, that their ruin
should be increasing, and their recovery almost
impossible, ver. 22-28. (4.) Under a deep sense of
his poverty and distress, David, and his divine Son,
celebrate the high praises of God, and call others to
praise him for the deliverances of Israel; but chiefly
for the erection of the gospel church, and for the
certain, though still future recalling of the Jews into
the same, ver. 29-36.
         While I sing, let me behold my Redeemer,
charged in law with my sins, and bearing the
punishment thereof. Let me learn with patience to
run the race of holy obedience and of necessary
trials set before me, looking to Jesus as my pattern,
and as the author and finisher of my faith. While I
behold the tremendous severity of God's judgments
against his ancient people, for rejecting and
murdering his Son, let me not be high -minded, but
fear. Let me behold the grace of our Lord Jesus,
who, though he was rich, yet for our sakes he
became poor; that we through his poverty might be
made rich. And let me be a living and lively
member of that church which is founded in his
blood, and blessed in him with all spiritual
blessings.

Psalm 70 To the chief Musician, A Psalm of David, to bring
to remembrance.
       This psalm is much the same as the five last
verses of the 40th. In it David prays, (1.) For divine
help to himself, ver. 1, 5. (2.) For shame and
confusion to his enemies, ver. 2-3. (3.) For joy and
comfort to his friends, ver. 4.
       While I sing, let me apply it to my own
troubled circum stances, and so in a believing
manner, bring them and the sinful causes thereof, to
my remembrance.

Psalm 71
        This psalm was probably penned on the
occasion of Absalom's rebellion, as Psalm 3rd,
42nd, 43rd; or of Sheba's conspiracy, 2 Sam. 20. It
contains, (1.) David's firm confidence in God,
encouraged by manifold experiences of his gracious
kindness, ver. 1, 3, 5-7. (2.) His fervent prayers that
he might never be ashamed, but might be delivered;
might find rest in God; might have constant matter
of new praises and thanksgivings afforded him;
might not be forsaken of God in his old age; and
might have his numerous, powerful, and crafty
enemies, confounded with shame and perplexity,
ver. 1-13, 18. (3.) His confident and joyful
expectations of God's further kindness, particularly
that God would never forsake, but revive him; that
he would increase his honour and comfort, and put
his enemies to shame: Along with which he
resolves, with admiring rapture, to extol God's
righteousness and salvation, and his new-covenant
relation to himself, and to Israel, ver. 14-24.
        While I sing, let me be affected with my
troubles. Let me never stagger at the promise
through unbelief, but be strong in the faith, giving
glory to God.

Psalm 72 A Psalm for Solomon.
       This psalm was composed by David, about
the time of Solomon's instalment in the throne of
Israel, 1 Kings 1 and 2. With respect to him, here is,
(1.) Fervent prayer for proper qualifications to
furnish him for government, ver. 1. (2.) Predictions
of the peace, glory, extent, wealth, duration and
happiness of his government, ver. 2-17. (3.) Praise
to the God of Israel for his mercies to his people,
ver. 18-19. But as our Redeemer is principally
intended, we have concerning him, (1.) His being
furnished with the Holy Ghost above measure, to
qualify him for his work, ver. 1. (2.) The glories of
his government; how righteous, how prudent, how
orderly, how condescending and merciful! how
destructive to oppressors, how efficaciously
productive to real religion, and how comfortable to
his faithful subjects his administrations are! ver. 2-
9. How extensive his church, among all ranks and
nations; how tender his care of the meanest of his
subjects; how much he is revered and adored by
them; how astonishing their increase, by means of
his gospel truth preached; and how permanent and
useful his government! ver. 10-17. (3.) A solemn
ascription of all the praise of these wonderful works
to God alone, with an earnest request and believing
expectation, that his glory shall fill the whole earth,
ver. 18-19.
         While I sing these lofty notes of the dying
psalmist, let me admire, let me adore, let me sing
praises to Jesus my King. Let me rejoice in his
highness and in his extensive usefulness to men.

Book III

Psalm 73 A Psalm of Asaph.
        This psalm, and the ten following, are called
Psalms of Asaph; but whether because he composed
most of them, or because he led the music in
singing them, is not altogether certain. Here we
have, (1.) The great foundation of all religion, viz.
the goodness of God to his people, strongly
asserted, ver. 1. (2.) The psalmist's faith fearfully
shaken by the consideration of the freedom,
prosperity, plenty, and peaceful-like death of the
wicked; which rendered them proud, oppressive,
insolent, atheistical, and profane; while himself was
in a manner consigned to nothing but trouble, ver.
2-13. (3.) The temptation, when it had reduced him
to the brink of atheism, is broken, by a discovery of
the connected purposes and providences of God in
his word and ordinances, ver. 14-20. (4.) His
improvement of his fall and recovery, to promote a
deep sense of his own meanness, ignorance, and
folly; a complete dependence on God as his guide; a
cleaving to him as his portion, infinitely preferable
to every thing else; without whom one is necessarily
miserable, and in the enjoyment of whom he is
assured of happiness, and excited to praise and
thanksgiving, ver. 21-28.
        While I sing, let me remember my own
wickedness and folly; and let me receive instruction
in duty. Let me cleave to God as my portion, and
resolve to draw my light and comfort from the
oracles of his mouth, and ordinances of his grace.

Psalm 74 Maschil of Asaph.
        This psalm relates to the destruction of the
city and temple of Jerusalem by the Chaldeans, or to
some similar disaster. In it we have, (1.) The
church's bitter complaints of God's displeasure; of
the outrage of her enemies; and of the apparent
hopelessness of her case, ver. 1-11. (2.) Strong and
heart-encouraging pleadings with God, upon the
account of his relation to his people, and of the
great things he had done for them, and that he was
at once their God and the God of nature; that
therefore he would remember to execute just
vengeance upon his sworn enemies, and grant help
and relief to his covenant people, ver. 12-23.
        While I sing this, let me admire the
sovereignty and holiness of God, in so severely
correcting his own people. And let the broken, the
deserted condition of the church, in this land, deeply
affect my heart, and excite my earnest prayers for
her restoration.

Psalm 75 To the chief Musician, Al-taschith, A Psalm or
Song of Asaph.
        Here, (1.) David returns thanks to God for
advancing him to the throne of Israel, and resolves
to act for the public welfare, ver. 1-3, 9-10. (2.) He
rebukes the insolence of such as opposed his
advancement, which sprung from the sovereign
disposal of God, the judge of the world, and
denounceth their destruction, ver. 4-8.
        While I sing, let me think of Jesus, whom
God hath crowned with glory and honour, and of
the infinite danger of opposing his government.
And if he exalt me to the spiritual honours of his
kingdom, let it be my care to glorify him, and to
profit his people.

Psalm 76 To the chief Musician on Neginoth, A Psalm or
Song of Asaph.
        This psalm is like to the 48th, and was
penned on occasion of some remarkable victory; but
whether in the days of David, Asa, Jehoshaphat, or
Hezekiah (2 Chron. 14, 20, 32), is uncertain. We
have in it, (1.) Encouraging congratulations of the
church's happiness, in having God so manifested in
her, and so near unto her; and in having his power
so employed in her behalf, to the advancement of
his own glory, and the destruction of her enemies,
ver. 1-6. (2.) Important instructions how to improve
this victory, to the terror of enemies, the comfort of
saints, and the excitement of all to vow to God, and
to obey and revere him, ver. 7-12.
        While I sing this psalm, let my soul bless the
Lord, that my lot hath been always cast in a land of
gospel light. Let me, with thankful heart, remember
what he hath done for this church and land; and
give him the praise of every deliverance. Let me
never fear the rage of men; but in every danger and
doubt commit my way to God, that he may bring it
to pass.

Psalm 77 To the chief Musician, to Jeduthun, A Psalm of
Asaph.
       This psalm relates to, (1.) A most afflicted
case, in which are remarkable, fervent, and
incessant prayers, agonizing restlessness, heart-
overwhelming meditations, melancholy fears, and
almost desperate outcries, concerning God, ver. 1-9.
(2.) The effectual cure of this mournful case, by
serious meditation on, and solemn acknowledgment
of the power, greatness, and grace of God, as our
God; and of the holiness and mysteriousness of his
providential conduct; particularly in bringing Israel
out of Egypt, and leading them through the
wilderness, to the promised land, ver. 10-20.
       While I sing, let me stand in awe of that
God, who so chastiseth his favourite saints. Let me
sympathize with men of wounded spirits. If my soul
is overwhelmed within me, let me call to mind the
gracious character, and great works of my God, for
his church, or for my soul.

Psalm 78 Maschil of Asaph.
        This psalm is but a brief instructive history
of the transactions between Israel and their God, for
about four hundred and eighty years, from Moses to
David. Here is, (1.) The introduction, containing a
solemn call to an attentive consideration of God's
words and works, in order to a faithful transmitting
of the knowledge thereof to posterity, that they
might set their hope in God, and reform from their
fathers' wickedness, ver. 1-8. (2.) The history itself,
in which are exhibited, 1. God's favours to Israel
before their settlement in Canaan, in plaguing the
Egyptians; in dividing the Red Sea; in giving them
water from the rock, and manna from heaven; in
bringing them into Canaan, notwithstanding their
unnumbered provocations, particularly their
forgetfulness of his mighty works, their ingratitude
for his favours, their murmuring against his trying
dispensations, their eagerness to satiate their lusts
with his benefits, their impenitent obduracy, or
hypocritical repentance under his rebukes, ver. 9-55.
2. Their ingratitude, treachery, and idolatry, after
their entrance into Canaan; with God's righteous
resentment thereof, in removing his tabernacle from
Shiloh, and in delivering up his ark and people into
the hand of the Philistines, ver. 56-64. 3. God's
merciful return to them, in obliging the Philistines,
by the plague of emrods, to restore his ark; in at
length providing an habitation for it at Jerusalem;
and in raising up and qualifying David, a
descendant of Judah, to govern them in a manner
both honourable and happy, ver. 65-72. These
things are more largely recorded in the books of
Exodus, Numbers, Deuteronomy, Joshua, Judges,
1st and 2nd Samuel, and part of 1st Kings.
        While I sing, let me, with grief and shame,
remember my own and my fathers' transgressions
against the Lord. Let me adore the infinite patience,
power, and mercy, holiness and equity of God. Let
me bless his holy name, for the multitude of his
undeserved favours towards me, and towards the
church. And though he cause grief, let me hope that,
in due time, he will have compassion.

Psalm 79 A Psalm of Asaph.
        This psalm relates to the havoc made of the
Jewish capital and nation, by the Chaldeans and
Syro-Grecians, as typical of the afflictions of the
gospel church. Observe, (1.) How deplorable the
condition of these people of God was, when their
enemies raged against their dwellings, persons, and
characters; and their God himself long continued
the tokens of his just displeasure, ver. 1-5. (2.) Their
humble, but fervent supplications, for the just
punishment of their heathen enemies; and for divine
pity, pardon, and help to themselves, ver. 6-12. (3.)
The pleas wherewith they enforce their requests,
viz. God's relation to them, as their God and
shepherd; and the tendency of what they asked to
promote the declarative glory of his name, ver. 1, 6,
9-10, 13.
        While I sing, let my soul have a deep
sympathy with the afflicted members of Christ. Let
me bless his holy name, that I am not in similar
circumstances. Let me lay before the Lord the
spiritual injuries which Satan and my lusts have
done to my soul, and to the church of God; and let
me cry earnestly for his merciful rising up to
destroy them, and to show me his salvation.

Psalm 80 To the chief musician upon Shoshannim, Eduth, A
Psalm of Asaph.
        This psalm relates to the distressed
condition of the Hebrew church and nation, perhaps
during the Syrian, Assyrian, or Chaldean invasions,
2 Kings 12-13, 15, 17-19, 24-25. Here are, (1.)
Earnest supplications for God's special presence and
favour, ver. 1-3, 7, 19. (2.) Mournful complaints of
the lasting appearances of God's anger; of the
overflowings of their grief; of abuse and derision by
their neighbours; and of the unhinging of their
constitution, which God himself had fixed, when he
brought them out of Egypt, ver. 4-13. (3.) Further
supplications, that God would consider and pity his
vineyard, their church and nation; assist their king,
his vine-dresser; and convert them to, and quicken
them in, his service, ver. 14-19.
        While I sing, let me be affected with the
distresses of God's church. Let me pant for the
fullest manifestations of his glory, and the blessings
of his presence. Let me insist that his Spirit may
glorify Jesus Christ, the Man of his right hand, in
taking what is his, and showing it unto me.

Psalm 81 To the chief Musician upon Gittith, A Psalm of
Asaph.
        This psalm was probably composed for the
Feast of Trumpets, on the first day of the seventh
month, Lev. 23:24. Here are, (1.) Solemn
exhortations to praise God for what he is to his
people, and for what he hath done for them, ver. 1-
7. (2.) Instructions concerning God's new-covenant
grant of himself and his benefits to men; their
ungrateful refusal thereof; and the misery they
incur, and happiness they lose thereby, ver. 8-16.
         While I sing, let my soul consider what God
is to, hath done for, and given to men to me: and let
all my inward powers steadfastly believe his
declarations, and eagerly embrace his offers. Let my
heart be filled with grief, that ever I refused to hear
my own gracious God speaking from heaven, and
offering to me all the unsearchable riches of Christ.

Psalm 82 A Psalm of Asaph.
        This psalm was probably penned for the
direction and warning of the Jewish courts of
judicature. It represents, (1.) The dignity of
magistrates, and their dependence on God as their
sovereign Governor and Judge, ver. 1, 6. (2.) Their
duty, ver. 3-4. (3.) Their too frequent degeneracy
and mischievousness, and the just punishment
thereof, ver. 2, 5, 7. (4.) The saint's request for the
establishment of God's kingdom in the world, ver.
8.
        While I sing, let me stand in awe of
Jehovah's authority and presence. Let me remember
I must be answerable to him for all my conduct. Let
me be affected with my meanness and corruption.
Let me revere magistrates as the deputies of God on
earth. And in every station in which God hath
placed me, let my care be, in all things to live
honestly, and to cry mightily that the kingdoms of
this world may quickly be made the kingdoms of
my Lord and of his Christ.

Psalm 83 A Song or Psalm of Asaph.
       This psalm relates to some combinations of
the Heathens around, against the Hebrews, either in
the days of David, 2 Sam. 8 or 10, or of
Jehoshaphat, 2 Chron. 20. It contains, (1.) A solemn
remonstrance to God concerning their malicious
designs against his church and honour, ver. 1-8. (2.)
Fervent supplications to God that he would defeat
these attempts; protect and preserve his church;
humble his enemies, and glorify himself in the
world, ver. 9-18.
       While I sing, let me be affected with the
inward combinations of my own lusts with Satan
and the world, and with the joint endeavours of
open enemies and naughty professors against the
church and interests of Christ; and commit the
cause to God who judgeth righteously.

Psalm 84 To the chief Musician upon Gittith, A Psalm for
the sons of Korah.
        This psalm is much like the 27th, 42nd,
43rd, and 63rd, and may have been composed on
the same occasion with the former, when David was
banished from Jerusalem by Absalom his son, 2
Sam. 15-16. We have here, (1.) David's ardent
affection towards the public ordinances of God, and
sense of their happiness who enjoyed them, ver. 1-
7, 10. (2.) His heart-burning desire to the God of
ordinances, ver. 8-9. (3.) His assured faith of God's
kindness, and persuasion of the happiness of such as
trust in him, ver. 11-12.
         So let my heart cry out for God, the living
God. So let me covet earnestly intimate fellowship
with him in his ordinances. So let me praise his
name, and hold on in his way, till I arrive at the
Zion above. So let God be my friend, my protector,
my supplier, my store, and the everlasting rock of
my rest.
         Verse 3 To me it is inconceivable, how sparrows or
swallows could fix their nests in the altars of God, which were
of brass or rough stones, and had a fire perpetually burning
upon them, and multitudes of priests and Levites crowding
around them. God did not allow of any trees to be planted near
them; and I cannot believe God's tabernacle or temple was
polluted with the nests and ordure of birds, in the manner of
our ruinous churches. Nor can I see this idea answerable to the
context, or scope of the psalm. Might not the verse be rather
translated, "As the sparrow findeth the house, and the swallow
the nest for herself, where she hath put her young ones, my
soul findeth thine altars, O Lord of hosts, my King, and my
God" i.e. with inexpressible ardour I long for, and desire
them; and with ineffable pleasure I approach them, in order to
intimate fellowship with my God. Compare ver. 1-2, 10 of this
psalm, with Psalm 42:1-2; 43:3-4.

Psalm 85 To the chief Musician, A Psalm for the sons of
Korah.
        This psalm relates to some remarkable
deliverance of the Jewish nation; but whether that
effected by the advancement of David to the throne,
or that from the Assyrian invasion, 2 Kings 19, or
from the Chaldean captivity, Ezra 1, is uncertain. It
contains, (1.) Thankful acknowledgments of divine
favours received, ver. 1-3. (2.) Supplications that
further favours and deliverances may be speedily
bestowed, ver. 4-7. (3.) Firm expectations of a
gracious answer, in the coming, mediation, and
blessings, of the Messiah, ver. 8-13.
        While I sing, let my soul be affected with the
mercies, which I, which my country, which the
church of God, have enjoyed. Let me be thereby
encouraged to plead for more. And let me, without
doubting, credit the promises, and expect supply
from the fulness of Christ.

Psalm 86 A Prayer of David.
        This psalm contains, (1.) David's fervent
supplications, that God would hear his prayers, ver.
1, 6-7; mercifully preserve and save him, ver. 2-3,
16; and afford him joy, strength, and honour, ver. 4,
11, 17. (2.) His pleas, wherewith he enforceth his
prayers, drawn from the goodness of God, ver. 5,
13, 15; his own relations to, and trust in God, ver. 2,
4, 16; his former experience of God's kindness, ver
17; and from the malice of his enemies, ver. 14. (3.)
His ascription of praise to God, as matchless in his
nature and work; as the sole object of worship; and
as great and infinitely gracious, ver. 8-10, 12-13.
        While I sing, let me remember, that the
psalmist hath left me an example, that I should walk
in his steps.

Psalm 87 A Psalm or Song for the sons of Korah.
       This psalm is an encomium upon mount
Zion, as typical of the gospel church. (1.) For the
sake of the temple, mount Zion is preferred to every
other place in Canaan; as more honoured by God
and more delighted in by him, ver. 1-3. (2.) In
respect of better inhabitants, greater stability, and
more important joys and blessings, the church is
preferred to all other nations, ver. 4-7.
        While I sing, let me observe the dignity of
relation to Jehovah as my God. Let me praise him
for founding his church on Jesus the unmoveable
Rock of ages, that the gates of hell cannot prevail
against her. Let me rejoice in the glorious promises
made concerning her, and supplicate the speedy, the
remarkable fulfilment thereof. And while I with joy
draw water out of her ordinances, her wells of
salvation, let me live as an holy, a cheerful member
of her society.

Psalm 88 A Song or Psalm for the sons of Korah, to the
chief Musician upon Mahalath Leannoth, Maschil of Heman
the Ezrahite.
        In this doleful psalm, after a very short
declaration of his faith, we have, (1.) Heman's bitter
wailing over his distressed case, that his troubles
were great; his body at the point of death; his soul
filled with grief; his God hiding and angry; his mind
distressed with terrors; and his friends unkind, ver.
3-9, 14-18. (2.) His bitter groans to, and
expostulations with God, importing, that he had
long cried for mercy, and that in death nothing
could be done for him, etc., ver. 1-2, 9-14.
        While I sing, let me think how dreadful hell
must be, when even fatherly chastisements are so
severe; how dreadful the enormity of sin, which
provokes God so grievously to afflict his dearest
favourites; and how necessary it is to retain our
faith of our relation to God, amidst the worst of
troubles.

Psalm 89 Maschil of Ethan the Ezrahite.
        This psalm was perhaps composed on the
occasion of Absalom's rebellion, 2 Sam. 15; or of
the revolt of the ten tribes, from their subjection to
the family of David, 1 Kings 12; or it relates to the
Chaldean oppression and captivity, 2 Kings 24-25.
In the first, and joyful part, we have, (1.) The
foundation of all comfort, happiness, honour, and
stability, laid in the mercy of God, and his covenant
with David, emblematic of that made with Jesus
Christ for the redemption of mankind, ver. 1-4. (2.)
A celebration of the God of the covenant, in his
faithfulness, glory, greatness, mercy, and equity;
and in his works, ver. 5-14; and of the glorious
dignity, happiness, and safety of the covenant
people, ver. 15-18. (3.) A bundle of covenant
promises, securing proper qualifications, assistance
and glory, to the Head of the covenant; and
indefeasible blessings to his covenant seed,
notwithstanding        their  manifold     sins   and
chastisements, ver. 19-37.
        In the second, and mournful part, we have
(1.) Grievous lamentations over the dishonour,
distress, and danger of David's family, ver. 38-45.
(2.) Expostulations with God concerning the same
drawn from the continuance of trouble; the
shortness of human life, and certainty of death; the
withdrawment of former kindness promised in the
covenant; and the insolent reproaches of enemies,
ver. 46-51. (3.) A triumphant conclusion of praise to
God, ver. 52.
        While I sing, let me chiefly keep mine eyes
on David's Lord. Let me with joy behold the
covenant made with him, for our redemption. Let
me adore my covenant God, as in him, well pleased
for his righteousness' sake, and rendering him and
his seed most blessed for evermore. And as Jesus'
sufferings for me purchased my eternal happiness,
let never my own, or the church's troubles weaken
my faith, or make me drop my songs of praise.

Book IV

Psalm 90 A Prayer of Moses the man of God.
       This psalm was composed by Moses, the
man of God, some time after God had sentenced the
Hebrews to wandering and death in the wilderness,
Num. 14. In it, (1.) Moses comforts himself, and his
people, with the eternal and unchangeable duration
of God himself, and their interest in him, ver. 1-2.
(2.) He humbles himself and his people with the
consideration of human frailty, ver. 3-6. (3.) He
submits himself and his people to the righteous
sentence of God passed upon them, ver. 7-11. (4.)
By prayer he commits himself and his people to
their gracious and merciful God; and requests the
sanctified use of their awful chastisements; the
averting of divine wrath, and the bestowal of true
comforts and joys; the returns of his favour, and the
progress of his work of mercy among their children,
ver. 12-17.
        Let me sing this psalm, as but the tenant of
an hour, who hath none assurance of his present
life: Sing it as resigned to my lot on earth, however
afflicted; as active in preparation for death; and
committing myself and family to the God of truth as
our Redeemer, our God, and our everlasting all.

Psalm 91
         This psalm was perhaps penned on the
occasion of the pestilence, inflicted for numbering
the people, 2 Sam. 24. In it, while the psalmist, by
faith, takes God for his own refuge and keeper (ver.
2-9) he, for the encouragement of others to do the
same, represents, (1.) The dignity, extent, and
continuance, of their happiness and safety, who
have God for their residence, ver. 1-4. (2.) Their
preservation from all malice and baleful influence
of the powers of darkness, while multitudes are
ruined thereby, ver. 3-9. (3.) Their enjoyment of
angels for their guard; and their triumph over devils
and other opposers, ver. 10-12. (4.) Their
possession of special favour from, and delightful
intimacy with God, here and hereafter, ver. 13-16.
         In singing these lines, let mine eyes be fixed
on Jesus, the Man of God's right hand, in whom all
these promises were fulfilled to the highest; and, in
his name, let me depend on them to be
accomplished in myself. And let all the begun
experience I have had thereof, encourage me to
rejoice in hope of the more abundant mercies and
glory of God.

Psalm 92 A Psalm or Song for the sabbath day.
        In this psalm or song for the sabbath day,
(1.) Praise, the business of the sabbath, is earnestly
recommended, ver. 1-3. (2.) God's works (which are
the reason of the sabbath and ground of praise) are
celebrated, in their greatness, and unsearchableness,
ver. 4-6. (3.) The ruin of sinners and the felicity of
saints are beautifully contrasted. Sinners shall
perish; but God, the portion and life of saints, shall
endure for ever. Sinners, notwithstanding their
temporary flourish, shall be cut off and destroyed;
but saints shall be exalted and comforted. Sinners
shall be confounded and ruined; but saints, through
their union to, and fellowship with Christ, shall
prosper and flourish, to the manifestation of God's
faithfulness and equity, ver. 7-15.
        While I keep the sabbath of the Lord my
God, let these things deeply affect my heart; and be
it my care, by a steady conversation and manifest
growth in grace, to verify these precious promises
of the New Testament in Jesus' blood.

Psalm 93
       This psalm is a triumphant celebration of the
government of Jehovah, and of Jesus our Redeemer,
in (1.) The awfulness, strength, stability, and
duration thereof, ver. 1-2. (2.) In his triumphant
victories over all opposition, ver. 3-4. (3.) In the
faithfulness and certainty of his words, and the
holiness of his court, ver. 5.
        While I sing, let my soul rejoice in the
highness of my God, and in the glories of my
Redeemer.

Psalm 94
        his is a psalm for the afflicted people of
God, in which, (1.) God's just vengeance is
implored upon their haughty, active, cruel, and
atheistical oppressors, whose folly is exposed from
the consideration of God's works of creation,
providence and grace, ver. 1-11. (2.) His gracious
comforts are presented to the persecuted saints, that
he will bless them in and by their afflictions, and
give them rest after them, while their enemies are
ruined; that God will not cast them off when cast
down, but will, in his due time, reduce things to
their right course: to verify which, the psalmist
produceth part of his own experience, ver. 12-24.
        While I sing, let all revenge be rooted from
my heart; all repining at afflictions be banished
from my soul. But in every plunge of adversity, let
me cast my burden on the Lord, that he may sustain
me, and help me in the time of need. Let me rejoice
in the assured hopes of God's yet reforming the
church, and spreading his glory among the nations.

Psalm 95
        This psalm contains, (1.) Solemn calls to
celebrate the praises of Jesus and his Father, on
account of what he had done, and what he is to us,
and we to him, ver. 1-7. (2.) Alarming warnings, to
hear his voice, and not to harden our hearts, as the
Israelites in the desert, who on that account were
debarred from the promised land, ver. 7-11.
        While I sing, let me behold the glories of my
Redeemer, and believe my new-covenant relation to
him; and while it is yet called to-day, let me beware
of being hardened through the deceitfulness of sin.
And since there is a promise left me of entering into
his rest, let me take heed, lest I should seem to
come short of it, through unbelief.

Psalm 96
        This psalm was part of the hymn sung at the
translation of the ark from the house of Obed-edom
to the city of David, 1 Chron. 16:1, 22-33; but
relates to the calling of the Gentiles to our
Redeemer. Here are, (1.) Solemn calls to ascribe
praises and glory to our high and great Immanuel,
ver. 1-9. (2.) Loud proclamations of Jesus'
establishment of his gospel church, and of his
coming to Judge the world, to the great joy of his
friends, ver. 10-13.
        While these high praises of God are in my
mouth, let my heart behold the glory, believe the
promises, and burn with desire after the enjoyment
of Christ, and of God in him.

Psalm 97
This psalm is of the same strain with the preceding;
and contains, (1.) Solemn calls to the Gentile
nations to rejoice at the equity and extent of Jesus'
new-testament kingdom, and at the destruction of
hardened Jews and heathen idolaters, occasioned by
the establishment thereof, ver. 1-7. (2.)
Representations of the pure and holy joy of the
saints, on account of Jesus' highness, and the glory
of God manifested therein, and of the care taken for
their safety and comfort, ver. 8-12.
        Join the choir, O my soul. Sing praises to thy
King; sing praises with understanding.

Psalm 98
        This psalm insists on the same subject as the
two preceding; and contains, (1.) Demands of praise
to the Redeemer, for the wonders he hath wrought;
the victories he hath won; the discoveries he hath
made; and the promises he fulfils, ver. 1, 3. (2.)
Demands of universal, and high rejoicing at the
erection and establishment of his gospel church; and
at his coming in the clouds to judge the world, ver.
4-9
        While my lips utter these lofty notes, let my
soul, according to this time also, say, What hath the
Lord wrought? What is Jesus what is Jehovah to
my heart? What hath he done for mankind, and
what for my soul? What of Jesus what of Jehovah,
have mine eyes seen, and my heart tasted? And
while I assuredly believe his return to judgment, let
me with ardour look for that blessed hope, and
glorious appearance of the great God my Saviour.
Let my soul, with rapture, spring forth to meet his
burning chariot wheels, and long to see creation all
on flames.

Psalm 99
       This psalm is of the same general nature as
the three preceding, and calls men to revere,
worship, and praise the Messiah, and his Father, (1.)
For the glory, greatness, mercy, and equity of his
government, ver. 1-5. (2.) For the instances of his
kindness to Israel, in remarkably regarding and
honouring their noted deliverers and reformers, ver.
6-9.
       While I sing this, let my soul stand in awe of
Jehovah's greatness and excellency. Let me call on
God in every time of need, that he may answer and
save me. Let me hope that he will forgive and
subdue, but never that he will indulge, my trans
gressions: For the Lord my God is holy.

Psalm 100 A Psalm of praise.
        This psalm, (1.) Contains a solemn call to
the Gentiles to praise God, and rejoice in him, ver.
1-4. (2.) Furnisheth us with matter of praise, viz.
that he is God, and stands nearly related to us, and
that his mercy and truth are everlasting, ver. 3, 5.
        Knowing the Lord to be my God, let me
approach his ordinances, and enter his heavenly
palaces, with a heart ravished with his excellencies
and kindness, and a mouth filled with his praise.

Psalm 101 A Psalm of David.
        This psalm was probably composed when
David assumed the government of his kingdom, and
contains his holy resolutions, (1.) To make God's
mercies and judgments the connected matter of his
song; and to walk circumspectly before his family,
through the assisting presence of God, ver. 1-2. (2.)
To purge his family and kingdom; discouraging and
punishing persons mischievous, wicked slanderers,
liars, and deceitful workers; and encouraging the
pious, ver. 3-8.
        While I sing, let me remember my faults,
and in the strength of the grace that is in Christ
Jesus, form the like holy resolutions.

Psalm 102 A Prayer of the afflicted, when he is
overwhelmed, and poureth out his complaint before the Lord.
        This psalm relates to some grievous distress;
wherein are observable, (1.) Bitter complaints of
divine hidings and wrath; of sore bodily troubles; of
inward griefs and perplexities; of calumnious
reproaches; of sudden changes of condition, and of
apparent nearness to death, ver. 1-11. (2.)
Seasonable comforts against these grievances,
arising from the eternity and unchangeableness of
God, ver. 13, 24, 27; and from the deliverances,
spread, and establishment he will grant to his
church, in answer to the prayers, and for the comfort
of his afflicted people, ver. 13-28.
        While I sing, think, my soul, if I am
exercised by my troubles; if these of the inner man
bear heaviest on my heart; and if I am a cordial
partaker with Zion in her joys and griefs.

Psalm 103 A Psalm of David.
        Here, (1.) The psalmist earnestly stirs up
himself to praise God, for favours to himself in
particular; for pardon of sins, healing of diseases,
redemption from death, ver. 1-5; and for his mercies
to his people, in revealing his mind to them;
pardoning their sins; sympathizing with their
weakness; pitying their afflictions; and perpetuating
his new-covenant mercy towards them and their
seed, ver. 6-18. (2.) Conscious of his own
insufficiency, he requests the assistance of angels,
and of all the works of God, to praise Him who is
their sovereign, ver. 19-22.
        Thus, my soul, let all my inward powers be
stirred up to praise and thank my Redeemer, for all
that he hath done for me, and for his church on
earth.

Psalm 104
        This psalm was perhaps composed along
with the preceding one; and contains, (1.) High
celebrations of God, as the God of nature;
particularly of his appearances in his heavenly
palaces, ver. 1-4; of his creation of the sea and dry
land, ver 5-9; of the provision he makes for his
creatures, according to their respective needs, ver.
10-28; and of his sovereign dominion and influence
over them, ver. 29-32. (2.) Holy resolutions to
meditate on, and praise the Lord, in the view of his
destruction of the wicked, ver. 33-35.
        Lo! how the stretched heavens, how
refulgent luminaries, how fertile fields, how
towering woods, how roaring seas, how ranging
brutes, how labouring men, how flaming seraphs,
unite their force to awaken my soul, to tune my
heart to the high praises of her Redeemer! Let me
meet my God, my Christ, in every view. In every
sound let me hear his voice. In every form let me
discern how great is his goodness, and how great is
his beauty! Nor let creation's lower plains detain my
heart: Let new-covenant relations to my unbounded
All, let redemption through his blood, fix all my
thoughts, enrapture all my inward powers; that I
may sing anthems, all on fire, to Him who loved
me, and gave himself for me.

Psalm 105
        This psalm was a part of the solemn hymn
sung at the translation of the ark from the house of
Obed-edom to the city of David, 1Chron. 16; and
contains, (1.) Solemn calls to meditate on, seek,
magnify, and praise God, who is so great, so
gracious, and so nearly connected with us, ver. 1-7.
(2.) A narrative of the particular mercies of God to
Israel for the space of 480 years, as grounds of
praise: Particularly, his covenant with their
patriarchs, ver. 8-11; his care of them, while
strangers and sojourners, ver. 12-15; his
advancement of Joseph, to be the shepherd and
stone of Israel, ver. 16-22; his increasing of them in
Egypt, and at last delivering them from it, in the
way of inflicting manifold plagues on the
Egyptians, ver. 23-38; and his care of them in the
wilderness, and setting them in Canaan, as a
peculiar people to himself, ver. 39-45.
        While I sing, let my soul, with affecting
wonder, think what God is to me; and what he hath
done for me, and for his church, in prosecution of
his covenant engagements with Jesus Christ.

Psalm 106
        This psalm may be considered as a
supplement to the preceding. That exhibited to our
view, the marvellous kindness of God to Israel: this
exhibits the fearful rebellions of Israel against their
gracious God. We have, (1.) A preface, ascribing
praise to God, exhibiting comfort to his saints, and
requesting favours from God, ver. 1-5. (2.) An
alarming confession or narrative of Israel's
wickedness against their God, notwithstanding his
marvellous kindness to them; in provoking him at
the Red Sea, ver 6-12; in lusting after sensual
gratifications, ver 13-15; in mutinying against his
vicegerents, ver. 16-18; in worshipping the golden
calf, ver. 19-23; in murmuring contempt of the
promised land, ver. 24-27; in joining with the
Moabites and Midianites, in the worship of Baal-
peor, ver. 28-31; in quarrelling with Moses at
Kadesh, ver. 32-33; in incorporating themselves
with the Canaanites, and imitating their idolatrous
and cruel customs, ver. 34-39. (3.) An affecting
view of God's great compassion to Israel,
notwithstanding they had provoked him to inflict
sore and almost destructive punishments upon
them, ver. 40-46. (4.) An affectionate improvement
of his kindness, in imploring his powerful
deliverance, and ascription of endless praises to his
name, ver. 47-48.
       While I sing, let my soul be deeply affected
with the dreadful nature of sin, and with men's
obstinacy, nay mine own obstinacy therein. Let me,
with amazement, behold the unbounded mercy of
God to men; in that where sin hath abounded grace
doth much more abound.

Book V

Psalm 107
        This psalm may be considered as an
appendix to the two foregoing. Those represented
the providence of God towards his chosen Israelites,
who prefigured his gospel church: this, (1.)
represents the providences of God to the children of
men in general, and calls them to praise him for his
kindness and mercy therein: particularly, 1. In
directing and gathering travellers, whom he had
justly dispersed, ver. 1-7. 2. In delivering prisoners,
whom he had justly confined, ver. 8-14. 3. In
healing the sick, whom he had justly plagued, ver.
15-22. 4. In relieving mariners, whom he had justly
bestormed, ver. 23-30. 5. In changing the condition
of territories, persons, and families, at his pleasure,
to the comfort of his people, and the restraining of
wickedness, ver. 31-42. (2.) It encourageth me to a
careful observation of God's providences, ver. 43.
        Let me sing this, with a heart deeply affected
with the various providences of God towards myself
and others, while we have walked by the way; been
confined in prisons, or lain on beds of languishing;
traversed the surface of the depths, or laboured in
our respective employments. Let me be a careful
observer of providences, and compare them with
the oracles of God, with my behaviour, and my
prayers, and also with one another: so shall I
understand the loving kindness of the Lord.


Psalm 108 A Song or Psalm of David.
        The first five verses of this psalm are taken
from Psalm 57:7-12; and contain praises and
thanksgivings to God. The other eight are taken
from Psalm 60:5-12; and contain prayers for, and
hopes of promised mercies.
        Never scruple, my soul, to think, or to sing,
or to pray over, the same subjects of importance;
but let there be always a newness of affection, and
newness of spiritual vigour.

Psalm 109 To the chief Musician, A Psalm of David.
        Probably David penned this psalm with a
view to Doeg or Ahithophel, and hence it is much
like the 41st, 52nd, 55th, 124th, and 140th. But the
Holy Ghost herein hath a mediate respect to Jesus,
and to Judas the traitor, Acts 1:20. Observe, (1.)
The psalmist's bitter complaints of his enemies, as
spiteful, deceitful, false, restless, unjust, ungrateful,
ver. 1-5. (2.) His fearful denunciations of divine
vengeance against his distinguished foe; that he
should be delivered into the hand of Satan; should
have his prayers rejected, his life shortened, his
substance wasted, and his posterity rendered
miserable, ver. 6-20. (3.) His lamentation over his
inward trouble, his approaching death, his
instability of condition, pining sickness, reproach of
enemies; and his prayers for mercy to himself,
confusion to his enemies, and glory to his God, ver.
21-29. (4.) His triumph in God, as his supporter and
deliverer amidst all his troubles, ver. 30-31.
        While I sing, let me be affected with the
sufferings of my Redeemer, and with the misery of
these Jews and others, who abandon themselves to
be his obstinate opposers. Let me implore, and by
faith foresee the complete ruin of all my spiritual
enemies; and the full redemption of my soul, and of
the whole mystical body of Christ, notwithstanding
all our sinful poverty and plagues.

Psalm 110 A Psalm of David.
       This psalm relates wholly to Jesus Christ:
and represents him, (1.) In his glorious offices; as a
Prophet, gathering the nations by the proclamations
of his gospel, the rod of his strength, ver. 2-3; as our
great High Priest, ver. 4; and as our exalted,
victorious, and governing King, ver. 2-3, 5-6. (2.) In
his diversified states of debasement and exaltation,
ver. 7 and 1, 5.
        While I sing, let mine eyes be fixed, wholly
fixed, on my glorious Redeemer. Behold! how,
having by himself purged our sins, he sat down on
the right hand of the Majesty on high! Behold him,
by the word of his grace, subduing multitudes of
sinful men to himself! Behold him able to save to
the uttermost, because he ever liveth to make
intercession for us. And let my mouth be filled with
hallelujahs and hosannas in the highest to Him,
who, by water and by blood, cometh in the name of
the Lord to save me.

Psalm 111
       In this psalm, every sentence of which
begins with a new letter of the Hebrew alphabet, we
have, (1.) The praising of God inculcated and
exemplified, ver. 1. (2.) The grounds of praise
exhibited, viz. that God himself is gracious and full
of compassion, and ever mindful of his covenant;
and that his works are magnificent, pleasant,
righteous, wonderful, perfect, kind, prudent, and
durable; and all conformed to his promise and
covenant, ver. 2-9. (3.) A recommendation of a holy
and reverential obedience to God, as the beginning
of wisdom, ver. 10.
       While I sing, let my heart be all inflamed
with the believing consideration of the marvellous
works of redemption, as wrought for and on my
soul; and filled with that love, which casteth out
slavish fear, but powerfully promotes the filial
reverence and awe of God.

Psalm 112
        This psalm is also alphabetically composed;
and contains, (1.) Invitations to praise God, ver. 1.
(2.) A delineation of the saints' character and
blessedness: that they are well principled, honest,
sincere, and kind; and shall be blessed with
prosperity, outward and inward, with comfort
amidst griefs, wisdom amidst perplexity, and with
honour and stability; and shall have their posterity
blessed after them, ver. 2-9. (3.) The misery of the
wicked, ver. 10.
        While I sing this, let me try my character,
and rejoice in hope of being blessed in Christ Jesus,
with all spiritual, temporal, and everlasting
blessings.

Psalm 113
        This psalm, with the five immediately
following, were called the great Hallelujah, and
used to be sung at the Passover supper (Matt.
26:30). Here, (1.) We are solemnly called to
celebrate the praises of God, ver. 1-3. (2.) We are
plentifully furnished with matter of praise, viz. the
heights of his glory and greatness, and the depths of
his condescension and grace, ver. 4-9.
       Think, O my soul, what the Lord hath done
for me, and for mine, and for mankind!

Psalm 114
        In this psalm are celebrated, (1.) God's
bringing Israel out of their Egyptian slavery, ver. 1.
(2.) His setting up his tabernacle among them, and
taking them for his peculiar people, ver. 2. (3.) His
dividing the Red sea and Jordan before them, ver. 3,
5. (4.) His awful descent on Mount Sinai, to give
them his law, ver. 4, 6-7. (5.) His providing them
with water from the flinty rock, ver. 8.
        While I sing, let my soul be affected with the
grace, the glory, the power of my God; and with the
mighty things he hath done for men, chiefly in the
work of our redemption and be encouraged to trust
him in the greatest straits.

Psalm 115
        This psalm instructs us, (1.) To whom glory
and praise ought to be ascribed: not to ourselves,
but to God's mercy and truth, ver. 1; not to lifeless,
senseless idols, but to God, whose throne is in the
heavens, and who doeth whatever he pleaseth, ver.
2-8, 15-16. (2.) How we are to glorify God: 1. By
trusting in him, crediting his promise and receiving
his blessings, ver. 9-15. 2. By blessing him while
we live, ver. 17-18.
        Learn, my soul, to deny thyself; to take up
thy cross and follow Christ; and to keep thyself
from idols. But, make Jehovah, as reconciled in
Christ, thy portion, thy trust, thy help, thy shield,
thy blessedness, thy comfort, thy praise; and
consider thine earthly enjoyments as the gracious
gifts of thy God, and an earnest of thy far more
exceeding and eternal weight of glory.

Psalm 116
        This is a psalm of thanksgiving, somewhat
similar to the 18th, 30th, 40th, and 103rd; and
represents, (1.) The psalmist's great distress and
danger, which had almost driven him to despair,
ver. 3, 10-11. (2.) The application he made to God
by prayer, for relief; and his experience of God's
gracious kindness, in granting his requests, in
hearing, pitying, and delivering him, ver. 1-2, 4-6,
8. (3.) His sincere and hearty resolutions, to make a
grateful acknowledgment of God's kindness; by
loving him, ver. 1; continuing to call on him and
receive from him, ver. 2, 13, 17; resting in him, ver.
7; walking before him as his devoted servant, ver. 9,
16; public confession of God's tender regard to him,
ver. 12, 15; and sincere and public paying of his
vows to God, ver. 10-19.
        While I sing, let me think, as before God,
what of these blessings I have experienced what of
these duties I have earnestly practised. If God hath
redeemed me from the broken law; from the lowest
hell; from the mouth of the infernal lion; and from
the power of my corrupt lusts: then let my soul, and
all that is within me, be stirred up to bless his holy
name; and let me never lose the heart-animating
impressions of his benefits.

Psalm 117
        This psalm relates to the gospel church.
Here are, (1.) A short, but solemn call, to the
redeemed of all nations, to praise their God, ver. 1.
(2.) Rich matter of praise suggested, viz. the
unbounded mercy and everlasting faithfulness of
God; and hence the fulness, kindness, and stability
of his covenant promises, and the accomplishment
thereof, ver. 2.
        If the psalm be short, let me sing in the full
assurance of faith, and with a heart all inflamed
with the loving kindness, and all enraptured with
admiration of the goodness of God, towards men,
towards the Gentiles, and towards my soul.

Psalm 118
        This psalm was probably composed by
David, soon after his advancement to, and
settlement on his throne, 2 Sam. 8. And contains,
(1.) His earnest exhortations to persons of all ranks,
offices, and states, to praise the Lord, for his
everlasting mercy and kindness, ver. 1-4. (2.) By a
recital of the great and gracious things which God
had done for him, he encourageth himself and
others to trust in God alone, ver. 5-18. (3.) His
thanksgivings for God's advancement of him to the
throne, notwithstanding of all opposition as typical
of the exaltation of Jesus Christ, ver. 19-23. (4.)
His, and the priests' and people's triumph, in the
expected prosperity of his reign; and of the
flourishing of the kingdom of Christ, ver. 24-29.
        While I sing, let my soul soar aloft to Jesus
and his sure mercies. Let me behold him, who for
the suffering of death was made a little lower than
the angels, now crowned with glory and honour;
having all his enemies put under his feet, but
himself invested with all power in heaven and in
earth; and furnished with all gifts for men, yea, for
the rebellious also, that God the Lord may dwell
among them; and, as the God of their salvation,
daily load them with benefits. Let me rejoice in his
highness, and have myself, and all my services,
bound with cords to his altar. And God forbid I
should conclude the notes, without entering into the
very marrow of the sense. Thou art My God, I'll
thee exalt; My God, I will thee praise.

Psalm 119
        This psalm is a collection of David's
precious thoughts, sorrowful complaints, humble
petitions, and holy resolutions, which, it seems he
had written down as they occurred, and which, in
the end of his life, he digested into the form in
which they now stand, consisting of as many parts
as there are letters in the Hebrew alphabet, the eight
verses of each always beginning with the same
letter in the original. The general scope of it is to
magnify God's word, and make it honourable. To
intimate that it informs us of whatever we ought to
expect from God in the way of gracious donation,
and of whatever he may expect from us in the way
of grateful returns of duty, it is represented under
ten different characters, one or other of which is to
be found in every verse, except the 122nd and
132nd: As God's Law, because framed and
published by him as our Sovereign                  His
Commandments, because given with authority, and
lodged with us as a trust His Precepts, because
peremptorily prescribed, and not left as a thing
indifferent     His Statutes, because fixed and
determined, and of perpetual obligation His Word,
because it is the declaration of his mind, and Christ,
his essential Word, is all and in all therein His
Way, because it represents Christ, the Way, the
Truth, and the Life, and is the rule of our faith and
obedience His Testimonies, because therein God,
upon his word, his oath, and writ, declares to men
the truths necessary to be known, in order to his
honour and their salvation, as ratified in the death of
his Son His Judgments, because it is framed in
infinite wisdom, and by it we must both judge and
be judged (but in verses 75, 84, 121, judgment
denotes righteous conduct) His Righteousness,
because it is holy, just, and good, and is the perfect
standard of righteousness And his Truth, or
Faithfulness, because its leading truths are eternal,
and the faithfulness of God is pledged in every
point thereof.
        While I sing, let me all along enter into the
spirit of the psalm. Let my delight be in God's
testimonies; my desires after God's presence; and
my endeavours to have God honoured. Let God's
word be my rule, my food, my armour, my wealth,
my comfort; and God himself, as therein revealed
and bestowed, be my everlasting and infinite all.

Aleph, The 1st Part.
         Here, (1.) David marks out holy men as the
only blessed men, ver. 1-3. (2.) Begs that, to his
own honour and satisfaction, he may be helped of
God to an upright observance of his laws, ver. 4-6.
(3.) In the faith of God's direction and assistance, he
resolves to praise and obey him, ver. 7-8.

Beth, The 2nd Part.
        He, (1.) Points out the proper method of
mortifying lust and attaining true holiness, ver. 9.
(2.) Professeth his attachment to God and his word,
and supplicates wisdom, direction, and support, ver.
10-12. (3.) Reflects with satisfaction on his former
regard to God's truth and ways, ver. 13-14. And, (4.)
Resolves to persevere therein, ver. 15-16.

Gimel, The 3rd Part.
        (1.) With eagerness and longings of heart, he
supplicates divine favour, and instruction in God's
truths, ver. 17-20. (2.) Remarks the just vengeance
of God upon such as wander from his ways, ver. 21.
(3.) Supplicates preservation from reproach, as he
observed, meditated on, delighted in, and consulted
God's word in all his conduct, ver. 22-24.

He, The 5th Part.
        He, (1.) Prays for divine instruction,
sanctifying influences, quickening grace; for the
accomplishment of God's promises to him; and
against covetousness, vanity, and reproach, ver. 33-
40. (2.) Enforces his requests, from his holy
resolutions, his relation to God, his zeal for his
honour, and his regard to his excellent declarations,
promises, and precepts, ver. 33-34, 38-40.

Vau, The 6th Part.
        Here are, (1.) The prayers he presented to
God, ver. 41, 43. (2.) The graces he exercised upon
God and his word faith, hope, love, ver. 42-43, 47-
48. (3.) The practice he resolved on, through grace,
viz. to keep God's law; to seek and cheerfully
practise his precepts; boldly publish his truth to
others; and to delight in, meditate on, and zealously
reduce them to practice, ver. 44-48.

Zain, The 7th Part.
       Represents, (1.) The comfort he had found
in God's word, ver. 49-50, 52, 54. (2.) His desire
that God would fulfil his promises, ver. 49; and his
care to remember, think on, and practise God's
truths, ver. 51-52, 55-56. (3.) The injurious
reproach he suffered from the wicked; and his
abhorrence of their sin and dread of their
punishment, ver. 51, 53.

Cheth, The 8th Part.
        We have here, (1.) The portion he chose,
ver. 57. (2.) The purpose he formed, ver. 57. (3.)
The prayers he offered up, for favour, mercy, and
instructions, ver. 58, 64. (4.) The penitential care he
took to obey God's law, ver. 59-61. (5.) The
complaints he uttered, ver. 61. (6.) His fervent
thanksgiving, ver. 62. (7.) His choice companions,
ver. 63. (8.) His deep sense of God's abundant
mercy and grace, ver. 64.

Teth, The 9th Part.
       Contains, (1. ) Hearty acknowledgements of
God's faithfulness and goodness, and of the
excellency and usefulness of his word, ver. 65, 68,
72. (2.) Humble acknowledgements of the
advantages he had received from his afflictions, ver.
67, 71. (3.) Complaints of the pride, calumnious
reproach, and luxurious stupidity, of wicked men,
ver. 69-70. (4.) Supplications for divine instruction,
ver. 66, 68. (5.) Declarations of his regard to God's
word, and resolutions to persevere in the
observance thereof, ver. 66-72.

Jod, The 10th Part.
        Contains, (1.) Thankful acknowledgements
of God's kindness in creating, and of his equity and
faithfulness in afflicting, ver. 73, 75. (2.) Earnest
supplications for divine instruction, for fresh
discoveries of God's mercy; for the confusion of
enemies, and the comfortable fellowship of friends;
and for an honourable soundness of heart, ver. 73,
76-77, 79-80. (3.) Holy joy in the comfort of fellow
saints, and especially in God's mercy and word, ver.
74, 76-77. (4.) An holy resolution to meditate on,
and cleave to God's testimonies amidst persecution,
ver. 78.

Caph, The 11th Part.
       Contains, (1.) Bitter complaints of great and
long distress, ver. 81-87. (2.) Fervent supplications
for speedy comfort, help, and quickening, ver. 82,
86, 88. (3.) Pleas wherewith these supplications are
enforced: as, that his distress was become
insupportable; that his hope was in God's word, and
he clave to it in his profession and practice; that his
life was but short, to have so much of it spent in the
furnace of affliction; that the malice and pride of his
enemies were excessive; and, in fine, that God's
loving kindness was infinite, ver. 81-88.

Lamed, The 12th Part.
        Represents, (1.) The eternity and
unchangeableness of God's word and works, ver.
89-91. (2.) The advantage of delighting in, and
cleaving to God's truths, ver. 92-93. (3.) God's
interest in men, a reason of his saving the observers
of his law, ver. 94. (4.) David's adherence to God's
truths amidst furious persecution, ver. 95. (5.) The
superlative excellency of God's word above all
earthly enjoyments, ver. 96.

Mem, The 13th Part.
Represents the psalmist's ardent affection to God's
law, ver. 97; because that, (1.) Thereby he had
attained much useful knowledge and wisdom, ver.
98-100. (2.) Thereby he was enabled to refrain
from, and hate sin, ver. 101, 104. (3.) Thereby he
was preserved steady in the path of his duty, ver.
101-02. (4.) And thereby he obtained much comfort
to his soul, ver. 103.

Nun, The 14th Part.
        Represents, (1.) The remarkable usefulness
of God's word, ver. 105. (2.) David's solemn
dedication of himself to his service, ver. 106. (3.)
His recourse to God by prayer under his afflictions,
ver. 107-08. (4.) His faithful adherence to the Lord's
way, amidst trouble and persecution, ver. 109-10.
(5.) His solemn and deliberate choice of God's word
for his portion and rule, ver. 111-12.

Samech, The 15th Part.
       We have here, (1.) David's hatred of sin, and
love of God's law, ver. 113. (2.) His profession of
dependence upon God, ver. 114. (3.) His debarring
of wicked men from his company, ver. 115. (4.) His
prayer for support, comfort, and honour, in the
Lord's way, ver. 116-17. (5.) His foresight of, and
trembling at the ruin of the wicked, ver. 118-20.

Ain, The 16th Part.
        Here David, (1.) Appeals to God for his
integrity and equity, ver. 121. (2.) Supplicates that
God would protect him against enemies; grant him
merciful deliverance, and saving instruction; and
arise for the maintenance of his own honour, ver.
121-26. (3.) Enforces his requests with these pleas
that he was God's servant; and that he could no
longer bear up under trouble, ver. 122-25. (4.)
Professeth his superlative regard to God's law, and
hatred of all iniquity, ver. 127-28.

Pe, The 17th Part.
       Here David, (1.) Declares his esteem of, and
regard to God's word, ver. 129-31; and his deep
concern for men's violation thereof, ver. 136. (2.)
Supplicates for mercy, direction, preservation,
deliverance, spiritual comfort, and instruction, ver.
132-35.

Tzaddi, The 18th Part.
        Contains, (1.) David's celebration of the
righteousness of God's nature and work, and of the
righteousness, faithfulness, and purity of his word,
ver. 137-38, 140, 142, 144. (2.) His avowed
remembrance of, zeal for, and delight in God's
word, notwithstanding much contempt and trouble,
suffered on account of his adherence to it, ver. 139-
43. (3.) His fervent prayer for spiritual instruction,
ver. 144.

Koph, The 19th Part.
        Contains,     (1.)     David's importunate
supplications for gracious audience, necessary
salvation, and quickening influence, ver. 145-47,
149. (2.) His hopes in, and meditations on God's
word as perfectly true, and perpetually stable, ver.
147-48, 151-52. (3.) In danger from wicked men, he
flees to God for relief, ver. 149-51.

Resh, The 20th Part.
        Contains, (1.) David's cries to God that he
would consider his affliction, plead his cause,
deliver him, and quicken his soul, ver. 153-54, 156,
159. (2.) His adherence to, love for, and high
esteem of God's word, ver. 153-54, 157, 159-60.
(3.) His description of the character and misery of
the wicked, ver. 155, 157-58.

Schin, The 21st Part.
        Here, (1.) David complains to God of
persecution from princes, ver. 161. (2.) Professeth
his holy awe of, his delight in, love to, and careful
observance of God's testimonies, and his utter
detestation of falsehood, ver. 161-68. (3.) Avows
his persuasion of the happiness of the godly, and his
own hopes of God's salvation, ver. 165-66.

Tau, The 22nd Part.
       Here, (1.) David's prayers for access to God,
and for instruction, deliverance, help, and recovery,
from God, ver. 169-70, 173, 175-76. (2.) Hearty
professions of his regard to God's word, and to the
salvation therein contained, ver. 169-76. (3.) His
humble confession of his wandering from God, and
desire to be brought back, ver. 176.

Psalm 120 A Song of degrees.
        Why this psalm and the fourteen following,
are called songs of degrees, we do not certainly
know. It is plain, some of them are suited to secret
worship, some to the family, and others to the
public assembly. This psalm, from its affinity to the
52nd, is supposed to refer to Doeg the Edomite, 1
Sam. 22. We have, (1.) The psalmist's prayer to God
for deliverance from the ruinous influence of
malicious and false accusations, ver. 1-2. (2.) His
denunciation of the just, fearful, and lasting
judgments of God against his malicious accusers,
ver. 3-4. (3.) His complaints of his quarrelsome and
vexatious neighbours, ver. 5-7.
        Never dare, my soul, to utter falsehood, or
even truth in a malicious manner. Never dare to
rush upon the fierce and lasting indignation of the
Almighty. Never choose to make this world thy
country, where sin and troubles so abound. But, ye
blessed abodes of peace and purity, when shall I
come to you! When shall I leave my evil
neighbours, and come to God, to God my exceeding
joy.

Psalm 121 A Song of degrees.
       Here, (1.) In the firm faith of being heard,
David supplicates divine help and protection, ver. 1-
2. (2.) He comforts himself and others with the
assurance of God's infallible direction and
protection, ver. 3-8.
        While I sing, let all my confidence be on the
Lord. Let my soul truly wait for him, from whom
cometh all my necessary and expected blessings. On
him be all my burdens, all my wants, all my cares.

Psalm 122 A Song of degrees. of David.
        This psalm appears to have been composed
for the use of the Hebrews at their three solemn
feasts, Lev. 23. We have in it, (1.) Expressions of
great joy in going up to Jerusalem, ver. 1-2. (2.)
High commendations of the beauty, order, sanctity,
and honour of Jerusalem, ver. 3-5. (3.) The duty and
happiness of such as are really concerned for the
welfare of Jerusalem, the church of God, ver. 6-9.
        While I sing, let me remember the gospel
church, bewail her disorders, supplicate for her
welfare, and set my heart on the Jerusalem which is
above, and into which nothing can enter that
defileth or disturbs. O when shall my feet stand
there! When shall I see my Jesus, on his great white
throne, and sit with him in his glory.

Psalm 123 A Song of degrees.
       This psalm relates to the distressed situation
of the church, and contains, (1.) Earnest longings
for, and believing expectations of merciful
deliverances from God, ver. 1-2. (2.) An
improvement of great distress, as a plea for speedy
and remarkable relief, ver. 3-4.
       While I sing this, let me, in the full
assurance of faith, cry to God, for the mercies which
my own soul, my family, and the church and nation
wherewith I am connected, so much need. Nor let
me accept of a denial of my believing requests.

Psalm 124 A Song of degrees of David.
         This psalm is highly applicable to every
remarkable deliverance which God works for his
church, especially to the great redemption wrought
for his people by Christ. In it, (1.) David magnifies
the danger they were in, ver. 1-5. (2.) Ascribes the
glory of their deliverance to God, ver. 1-2, 6-7. (3.)
Improves the deliverance as an encouragement to
trust in God, ver. 8.
         Let me behold Jehovah as a present help in
trouble. Let my waiting eyes be towards him, who,
notwithstanding all the combined power and policy
of hell and earth, is able and ready to pull my feet
out of the net.

Psalm 125 A Song of degrees.
        Let me, in this psalm, behold, (1.) The
happiness of the saints; in the fixedness of their
new-covenant state; the safety of their condition:
the seasonableness of their deliverances; and the
advantage of effectual fervent prayers in their
behalf, ver. 1-4. (2.) The misery of the wicked,
particularly of the apostates from the ways of God,
ver. 5.

        Let me then never be of them that draw
back, but of them who believe, to the fixing of their
heart, and the saving of their soul.

Psalm 126 A Song of degrees.
        This psalm relates to some remarkable
deliverance of the Jewish church, perhaps from
Babylon, as typical of those of the gospel church;
and, (1.) Represents great admiration of, and
thankfulness for the deliverance, ver. 1-3. (2.)
Contains prayers for, and encouragement to saints
exercised with tribulations, ver. 4-6.
        While I sing, let me admire the Lord's
kindness to my country, to his gospel church to
mankind to my soul. And, in my remaining
distress, personal or relative, let me sow in
mourning and supplication, that I may through
grace reap joyful deliverances, and everlasting
consolations.

Psalm 127 A Song of degrees for Solomon.
        This psalm relates to David's orders for
building the temple, 1 Chron. 22, 28; or to
Solomon's actual building of it, 2 Chron. 2-6. It
teacheth us constant dependence on God, in all our
concerns; particularly in, (1.) Prospering our
undertakings, or rearing our families; and in
protecting our residence and country, ver. 1. (2.) In
enriching us without excessive care or labour, ver.
2. (3.) In giving us agreeable heirs to possess our
substance, ver. 3-5.

        In all my undertakings, let me set the Lord
always before me! and depend on his blessing, as
the source of my success. In all my enjoyments, let
my care be to enjoy God himself.

Psalm 128 A Song of degrees.
        This psalm exhibits, (1.) The comprehensive
duty of all, particularly married persons, ver. 1. (2.)
The advantage of studying it, viz., success in
employments; comfort and honour in relations; joy
in the prosperity of God's church, and of their own
offspring, ver. 2-6.
        While I sing, let me be ashamed, let me be
pained on account of my deficiency in holiness, and
of the hurt my family and the church of God have
thereby sustained. Let me behold the great gain of
true godliness, having the promises of this life, and
of that which is to come.

Psalm 129 A Song of degrees.
         Whether this psalm was penned when David
brought up the ark of God to Mount Zion, 2Sam. 6,
or relates to the Chaldean captivity, is uncertain. In
it, the people of God, (1.) Look back on their often-
repeated tribulations, with thankfulness to God for
their deliverances from Egypt, and from their
oppressors under the Judges, Saul, etc., ver. 1-4. (2.)
They look forward, with a believing prayer for, and
prospect of the destruction of all their implacable
enemies, ver. 5-8.
         While I sing, let me not only be affected
with what the Lord did for the Jewish, but chiefly
with what he hath done for the gospel church: and
let me, in faith, cry for, and expect the downfall of
Antichrist, and of all other enemies of Christ and
his church.

Psalm 130 A Song of degrees.
        This psalm contains, (1.) David's earnest
cries to God, out of the depths of corruption,
desertion, temptation, or trouble, ver. 1-2. (2.) His
ingenuous repentance, in the faith of God's merciful
forgiveness, ver. 3-4. (3.) His attentive waiting on
God for his favours, ver. 5-6. (4.) His encouraging
expectations from God, ver. 7-8.
        While I sing, let my soul go and do likewise.
While the unbounded mercy and plenteous
redemption of Jehovah remains unexhausted, let my
soul cry mightily in every trouble; believe
forgiveness under the deepest sense of guilt; and
quietly hope and wait for the salvation of God. Let
never hopeless despair steel my heart against a God
of grace.

Psalm 131 A Song of degrees of David.
       This psalm contains, (1.) David's candid
profession of his contentment with his lot, ver. 1-2.
(2.) His warm encouragement of others to a
constant dependence on God, ver. 3.
       While I sing it, let me be ashamed of my
pride, and of meddling with things above my
sphere. Let me desire humility, as my great
ornament, in every station; and study, like a child of
God, weaned from worldly lusts, to set all my hope
on God himself.

Psalm 132 A Song of degrees.
        Whether this psalm was penned by David
when he brought up the ark of God from Kirjath-
jearim, 2Sam. 6, or for Solomon's dedication of the
temple, 1Kings 8, is uncertain. It contains, (1.) A
representation of David's pious and earnest care to
provide a proper lodging for God's ark, ver. 1-7. (2.)
Earnest prayers for God's presence and blessing to
attend his ark, ver. 8-10. (3.) David's care to provide
an habitation for God; and God's promises to David
relating to the prosperity and establishment of his
family, especially in the Messiah, are pleaded as
arguments to enforce these requests, ver. 1-5, 10-18.
        While I sing, let my soul, with ardour, go
out after God, the living God. Let nothing less than
his presence in his ordinances satisfy my desires.
Let the welfare of his ministers and people be
matter of my deep concern. Let me admire the
kindness of God, that I have so many exceeding
great and precious promises to plead upon. While I
sing them, let me grasp, let me believe them, with
my whole heart.

Psalm 133 A Song of degrees of David.
        This psalm was perhaps penned when the
Hebrew tribes concurred to fix David on his throne,
or to restore him to it, 2 Sam. 5 or 19. Here is, (1.)
A declaration of the excellency and pleasantness of
brotherly affection, ver. 1. (2.) The illustration of
this in two similitudes, ver. 2-3. (3.) The great
advantage of it, ver. 3.
        While I sing, let Jesus' love, shed abroad in
my heart, make me exemplify my notes. How happy
the churches and families where this prevails! And
how blessed above all, the church above, where
love, love for ever reigns.
          Verse 2 To imagine that the sacred oil ran down
upon, and stained the high priest's robe to the skirt, or lower
parts thereof, to me seems very inconsistent with the
remarkable cleanliness prescribed by the ceremonial institutes;
and very inconsistent with the prescribe finery and beauty of
this sacred apparel. The Hebrew word phi ought therefore to
have been translated not skirt, but collar or neckband
(Compare Job 30:18, Exodus 28:32). Perhaps, too, the hills of
Zion, in ver. 3, denote not those about Jerusalem (Psalm
125:2), which stood a hundred miles distant from Hermon, but
that which is called Sion, Deut. 4:48, on which, without
controversy, the famed, the plentiful, the invigorating, the
fructifying dews of Hermon descended.

Psalm 134 A Song of degrees.
        This psalm was perhaps penned when David
appointed the orders of the Priests and Levites, 1
Chron. 23, 26. In it we have, (1.) The sacred
watchers of the temple stirred up, to employ their
time in praising God, ver. 1-2. (2.) A fervent prayer
for the blessing of God on them, or on others, ver.
3.
        While I am in Christ's church, let me
provoke myself and others to love, and to good
works.

Psalm 135
        This psalm contains, (1.) Earnest
exhortations to all concerned, to praise the Lord,
ver. 1-3, 19-21. (2.) Rich matter for praise God
considered as the God of Israel, ver. 4; as the God
of gods, ver. 5; as the God of the whole world, ver.
6-7; as a God terrible to the enemies of Israel, ver.
8-11; but kind to Israel, ver. 12-14; and as the only
true and living God, before whom all others are but
vanity and falsehood, ver. 15-18.
        Come near, my soul, and sing what Jehovah
is to, and hath done for his church; and what he is
to, and hath done for me.

Psalm 136
        This psalm is a continued exhortation to
praise the Lord for the perpetual displays of his
mercy. The hearty singing of it has been honoured
with the most signal appearances of God's kindness,
2 Chron. 5:13 and 20:21-22. We are in it directed to
praise God, (1.) As great and good in himself, ver.
1-4. (2.) As the Creator of all things, ver 5-9. (3.)
As the God and Saviour of Israel, who brought them
out of Egypt, through the Red sea and wilderness,
and who cast out the nations, and gave them the
possession of Canaan, ver. 10-22. (4.) As our
gracious and condescending Redeemer, ver. 23-24.
(5.) As the great and sovereign Benefactor of all
creatures, ver. 25-26.

         While I sing it, let my heart be melted, and
all-inflamed, with the loving-kindness and mercy of
God in Christ. Let me behold, believe, and admire
the unbounded extent, and everlasting duration
thereof.

Psalm 137
        This psalm was probably composed in
Chaldea, during the captivity, and contains, (1.) The
Jews' grievous bewailing of their distress, contempt,
and reproach, ver. 1, 4. (2.) Their tender and
affectionate remembrance of, and concern for
Jerusalem the church and ordinances of God, ver.
5-6. (3.) Denunciations of destruction to the
Edomites, who had promoted, and the Chaldeans,
who had affected their distress and captivity, ver. 7-
9.
        While I sing, let me bless the Lord for what
mercy is my lot, above that of many others. Let the
welfare of God's church lie near my heart. Let me
earnestly desire, and firmly expect the ruin of all her
and my spiritual foes.

Psalm 138 A Psalm of David.
       This psalm was perhaps composed by David
when he was newly advanced to his throne, 2 Sam.
5, 1 Chron. 12. In it, (1.) He looks back with
thankfulness upon the experience he had of God's
goodness to him, ver. 1-3. (2.) He looks forward
with comfort, in hopes that others would go on like
him to praise God, ver. 4-5; and that God would
continue to do good to him, ver. 6-8.
       While I sing these lofty lines, let the sense of
the unnumbered mercies I have received from God,
and the hopes of his everlasting loving-kindness,
tune and animate my heart.

Psalm 139 To the chief Musician, A Psalm of David.
        This psalm was probably penned by David,
while he was loaded with some vile reproaches; and
contains, (1.) His celebration of, 1. The
omniscience, ver. 1-6; 2. The omnipresence, ver. 7-
12; and 3. The creating-kindness of God, ver. 13-
16. (2.) His improvement of these in, 1. Devout
meditation on God, ver. 17-18; 2. In detestation of
wicked men, ver. 19-22; 3. In solemn profession of
his uprightness before God, ver. 23-24.
        Let me sing, let me pray, let me live, always
under the deepest impressions of God's eye upon
me; his presence with me; his formation of me; his
new-covenant relation to me; and his everlasting
redemption of my soul. Let my nights and my days
be filled up with precious, with fixed, with pleasant
thoughts concerning these, and holy improvements
of them. Let me never make the Lord's enemies my
intimates. Let a thorough purgation from sin and
progress in holiness, be the delight, the earnest
desire of my soul.

Psalm 140 To the chief Musician, A Psalm of David.
       This psalm was probably penned by David
when persecuted by Saul; and perhaps partly relates
to Doeg the Edomite, as Psalm 52and 120. In it, (1.)
David complains of the malice of his enemies, and
supplicates God's preservation from them, ver. 1-5.
(2.) He encourageth himself in God, as his God, ver.
6-7. (3.) He prays for, and prophesies the
destruction of all his enemies, ver. 8-11. (4.) He
assures himself and other saints, that all their
troubles shall end happily, ver. 12-13.
        Let my troubles stir me up to fervent
prayers, and to an earnest believing on God as my
God. Thus shall I suck honey out of flinty rocks;
and the malice, as well as the ruin of mine enemies,
shall work for me an exceeding and eternal weight
of glory.

Psalm 141 A Psalm of David.
        This psalm was likewise composed under
distress and persecution. In it David prays, (1.) For
God's kind acceptance of his prayers, ver. 1-2. (2.)
For his powerful assistance in keeping his tongue,
his heart, and hand, in the way of duty, ver. 3-4. (3.)
That others might be helpful to him with their
seasonable reproofs; and he to them with his
prayers, ver. 5-6. (4.) That when he and his friends
were brought to the last extremity, God would
graciously appear for their relief, ver. 7-10.
        When I am afflicted, let me pray. Let me
highly prize and kindly receive Christian reproof,
and earnestly improve it to my spiritual advantage.
Nor let me ever despair, on account of the great
distress of my soul, or of the church. Is any thing
too hard for the Lord?

Psalm 142 Maschil of David; A Prayer when he was in the
cave.
        This psalm was framed by David when
obliged by Saul's persecution to hide himself in a
cave, 1 Sam. 22:1 or 24:3. It contains, (1.) Bitter
complaints of the subtilty, strength, and malice of
his enemies, and of the coldness and indifference of
his friends, ver. 1-4, 6. (2.) The comfort he took in
God's knowing his way, and in recognizing his
claim to God as his portion, ver. 3-5. (3.) His
pleasant expectations that his God would deliver
him, and that his fellow saints would join with him
in thanksgiving for his deliverance, ver. 6-7.
        If all men forsake me, if all men harass me,
let me cast my burdens on the Lord, that he may
sustain me. Let me renew my believing claims to
him as my Lord, my God, my Refuge, and my
Portion. Let me rest firmly on his characters and
promises, for his sympathy, help, and deliverance.

Psalm 143 A Psalm of David.
        This psalm was probably penned by David
during the unnatural rebellion of his son Absalom,
as Psalm 3, 42, 43. It contains, (1.) Sad complaints
of trouble, and of the sinking of his spirit under it,
ver. 3-5, 7. (2.) Fervent supplications that God
would hear his prayer; ver. 1, 7; forgive his sins,
ver. 2; manifest his favours, ver. 6-8; direct him in
the way of duty, ver. 8-10; quicken him in it, ver.
11; deliver him out of trouble, ver.9, 11; and, in
fine, punish his persecutors, ver. 12.
        What time my heart is overwhelmed, let
God lead me to the Rock that is higher than I. Let
me study to have my sin removed first, in order that
my troubles may remove in due order, and with a
rich blessing.

Psalm 144 A Psalm of David.
        This psalm was probably composed by
David upon the occasion of his advancement to the
throne, 1 Chron. 12, 2 Sam. 5, as Psalm 138, 75,
etc. In it we have, (1.) Thankful acknowledgements
of God's relation to him, and condescending
kindness towards him, ver. 1-4. (2.) Supplication
for divine deliverance from his enemies, who still
threatened him, ver. 5-8; and for prosperity to his
kingdom, ver. 11-14. (3.) Triumphant joy in God, as
his and their deliverer and portion, ver. 9-10, 15.
        While I sing, let me admire the relation, the
kindness of God to me, who am so mean, so frail,
so sinful! Let me rejoice in him, as my all in all; and
commit my way to him, that he may bring it to pass.
And let every external benefit lead up my heart to
God himself.

Psalm 145 David's Psalm of praise.
       This psalm, like the 25th, 34th, 111th,
112th, and 119th, is composed in an alphabetical
form. It, and the five which follow, consist of pure
praises to God, without so much as one complaint
or petition. Here, (1.) David engageth himself, and
encourageth others to praise God, ver. 1-7, 10, 21.
(2.) He represents the grounds of praise, viz the
greatness and glory, sovereign power, and eternity
of God, and the greatness and glory of his works,
ver. 3-7, 11-13; his unbounded goodness, mercy,
and compassion, ver. 7-9; manifested in pitying the
afflicted, providing what is necessary for all
creatures; and in his readiness to hear and answer
his people's prayers, preserve them from evil, and
destroy their enemies, ver. 14-20.
        In such high praises of God, may all my
prayers issue at last. And the nearer I approach to
mine end, let my heart and lips be the more filled
with his praise, and honour all the day. While I live
on earth, let me publish the heart-engaging wonders
of the nature and works of my God.

Psalm 146
        This psalm contains, (1.) Pleasant
engagements and encouragements to the hearty and
constant praises of God, ver. 1-2, 10. (2.) Earnest
dissuasives from trusting in man, who is so weak
and short-lived, ver. 3-4. (3.) Powerful persuasives
to trust in God, whose power and goodness appear
so remarkable in creation, providence, and
redemption, ver. 5-10.
        While I sing, be stirred up, my soul, and all
that is within me, to bless his holy name; to depend
on him alone, who is my Maker, my faithful Friend,
my kind and righteous Protector, my bountiful
Provider, my almighty Deliverer, my gracious
Enlightener, my seasonable Restorer, my perpetual
Preserver, and the just punisher of my foes my
King, my God, and my all.

Psalm 147
        This psalm was probably penned by David,
while he repaired and fortified Jerusalem, 2Sam. 5;
and contains, (1.) Solemn calls to praise God, ver.
1, 7, 12, 20. (2.) Weighty reasons for praising God,
viz. 1. That, as the God of nature, he is infinitely
intelligent and great, and the sovereign manager of
all creatures, ver. 4-5, 8-9, 15, 18. 2. As the God of
grace, he tenderly comforts, and affectionately
delights in his people, ver. 3, 6, 10-11. 3. As the
God of Israel, Jerusalem, and Zion, he settles their
civil and religious state, ver. 2, 13-14, 19-20.
        When God manifests himself in so many
things, be ashamed, my soul, that I discern him in
so few. O to see God's power and glory in every
work of his hand, and especially in every word of
his mouth! And to be so affected with what he is,
and hath done, and will do, as in every thing to give
thanks.

Psalm 148
         Here the psalmist, overwhelmed with
enrapturing views of the glory, and a sense of the
goodness of the Lord, issues forth a solemn call to
all his fellow creatures, to assist him in his songs of
praise. (1.) To the celestial creatures above, whether
intellectual beings or not, ver. 1-6. (2.) To the
terrestrial creatures below, whether irrational, ver.
7-10; or rational, ver. 11-13; but chiefly to his
chosen people, ver. 14.
        While angels and other rational beings
actively trumpet forth his honours, and irrational
creatures praise him objectively, in manifesting his
excellencies marked on them; let my soul be
ravished with his glory, amazed with his grace, and
all inflamed with love, in uttering his praise, who,
in Christ, is my God, and my exceeding Joy. Cry
out, all my powers, My God, who is like unto thee!
Is there any work like unto thy work!

Psalm 149
        This psalm was perhaps penned by David,
when he took the strong hold of Zion from the
Jebusites; and represents, (1.) Abundant joys to the
people of God, in his relation to, delight in, and
kindness towards them, ver. 1-5. (2.) Abundance of
terror to the proudest of their enemies, in their
victory and power over them, ver. 6-9.
        While I sing, let mine eyes be fixed on Jesus
Christ, going forth in his chariots of salvation,
subduing his enemies to himself, by the gospel rod
of his strength, in the Apostolic and Millennial
periods, Rev. 20:2; and in the chariots of
vengeance, destroying his incorrigible opposers, by
the iron rod of his wrath, and treading them under
the feet of his saints.

Psalm 150
        This psalm contains thirteen calls to praise
God. It directs, (1.) Who ought to praise him, ver. 6.
(2.) Why they should praise him, viz. that he dwells
with men; and for his mighty acts, and his excellent
greatness, ver. 1-2. (3.) How he ought to be praised,
viz. in a public, earnest, and skilful manner, ver. 2-
3, 5.
        Dare not, my soul, to finish thy notes, and to
conclude the book, without commencing an
heartiness in the work. Awake then my inward
powers, let me even here, begin my high hallelujahs
and hosannas to Him, who loved me, and gave
himself for me.

        FINIS
